1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[2619,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],""]
3:I[5410,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],"SectionNav"]
4:I[9766,[],""]
5:I[8924,[],""]
6:I[5410,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],"BottomTabs"]
7:I[5852,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],"ReportIssue"]
8:I[5438,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],"SyncBoot"]
9:I[9650,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","267","static/chunks/267-2129b0ba610f917b.js","177","static/chunks/app/layout-7738d875bfb6954a.js"],"ServiceWorkerBoot"]
a:I[281,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","395","static/chunks/395-67ae126df9c8b5e2.js","974","static/chunks/app/page-153407189a040813.js"],"InstallNudge"]
b:I[4911,["619","static/chunks/619-ba102abea3e3d0e4.js","395","static/chunks/395-67ae126df9c8b5e2.js","974","static/chunks/app/page-153407189a040813.js"],"Feed"]
4d:I[7150,[],""]
:HL["/_next/static/css/dbb3b7f94c4b5f6b.css","style"]
c:T57e,Das Parlamentarische Kontrollgremium befragt am Montag, 5. Oktober 2026, in einer öffentlichen Anhörung die Präsidenten der Nachrichtendienste des Bundes. Geladen sind Martin Jäger, Präsident des Bundesnachrichtendienstes (BND), Sinan Selen, Präsident des Bundesamtes für Verfassungsschutz (BfV), und Martina Rosenberg, Präsidentin des Bundesamtes für dem Militärischen Abschirmdienst (BAMAD/MAD). Die Anhörung beginnt um 10 Uhr im Europasaal 4.900 des Paul-Löbe-Hauses in Berlin und dauert drei Stunden. Die Anhörung wird live im Parlamentsfernsehen und im Internet auf www.bundestag.de übertragen. Das Parlamentarische Kontrollgremium (PKGr) ist für die Kontrolle der Nachrichtendienste des Bundes zuständig und überwacht den Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND), den Militärischen Abschirmdienst (MAD) und das Bundesamt für Verfassungsschutz (BfV). Die Bundesregierung ist nach dem Kontrollgremiumgesetz dazu verpflichtet, das PKGr umfassend über die allgemeinen Tätigkeiten der Nachrichtendienste und über Vorgänge von besonderer Bedeutung zu unterrichten. Das PKGr kann von ihr außerdem Berichte über weitere Vorgänge verlangen. Dem PKGr gehören neben dem Vorsitzenden Marc Henrichmann (CDU/CSU) die Abgeordneten Heiko Hain und Alexander Throm (beide CDU/CSU), Daniel Baldy und Sonja Eichwede (beide SPD) sowie Dr. Konstantin von Notz (Bündnis 90/Die Grünen) an. (vom/29.09.2026)d:T51d,Heavy rain has long marked the end of Nepal's monsoon season each year, when storms roll through the Lumbini and Gandaki provinces and feed the Gandak River, also known as the Narayani. The river runs out of the mountains, braids across low-lying plains of sand and silt deposits called diara, and crosses into India. Embankments along its course have held back seasonal overflow for decades, though water still spreads across farmland in normal years. Gauges at spots like Devghat have tracked levels since the 1960s.

Torrential storms hit the provinces from September 24 to 27, 2026. Runoff poured into the river system and drove the Gandak to its highest recorded marks. On September 27 the gauge at Devghat hit 11.94 meters. Downstream in India, stations at Bagaha, Dumariaghat, Rewaghat and Lalganj also set new highs. Water topped and broke embankments in several stretches, sending floodwater into settled areas including parts of Bagaha, Areraj and Fulia Khand.

The overflow and triggered landslides reached hundreds of villages and displaced thousands of people along hundreds of kilometers of the river. Satellite images from September 29 showed blue floodwater covering diara fields and areas beyond the embankments. Authorities continued to measure the full reach of the inundation on October 2.e:T4d9,California law has treated Jewish identity as a matter of religion since the state first wrote its civil rights statutes in the 1950s. Those statutes listed protected categories including race, color, religion, ancestry and national origin but never named Jewish as a distinct ethnic group. Courts and agencies applied the religious category alone when claims of discrimination reached them.

On October 1, 2026, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Assembly Bill 2847. The measure adds “Jewish” to the list of ethnic categories in the state’s Education Code, Government Code and Penal Code. It gives state agencies, schools and law enforcement the power to record and investigate bias incidents under the ethnic heading when the conduct targets people of Jewish descent regardless of their religious practice.

The new text now sits alongside the separate bill Newsom approved the same day that treats religious holiday observance as an excused school absence without a parent’s written note. Both changes take effect January 1, 2027. The state’s civil rights framework now carries two parallel tracks for Jewish identity, one ethnic and one religious, and the next test will be how agencies apply the dual listing when complaints arrive.f:T4ab,The International Space Station has orbited Earth since 1998 and hosted rotating crews from multiple nations under agreements that kept the platform running through Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. NASA extended operations of the station through 2030. Crews from the United States have reached it on SpaceX Dragon capsules since 2020, with flight times set by the relative positions of the station and the launch site at the moment of liftoff.

On October 2 2026 a Falcon 9 rocket lifted off from Cape Canaveral, Florida, at 11:10 a.m. local time carrying the four-member Crew-13. The Dragon capsule Grace docked with the station 7 hours and 55 minutes later. That beat the previous shortest US trip of more than 30 hours set by the prior crew. A Russian Soyuz holds the all-time record of just over three hours from October 2020.

The new crew of commander Jessica Watkins, Luke Delaney, Joshua Kutryk and Sergey Teteryatnikov will remain aboard for six months and take over station duties from Crew-12, which returns to Earth on Monday. Watkins is the first Black woman to command a crew flight to orbit. The mission had been delayed from mid-September by a leak on the Dragon.10:T4dd,Saudi Arabia has handled emergency landings at its airports under international aviation rules since the US and Israel began strikes on Iran in late February 2026 and the fighting narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz. The United Arab Emirates cut off trade with Iran on August 19 after accusing it of firing two missiles toward UAE waters. An Omani national working as co-pilot on a Flydubai flight seized the aircraft and wounded the captain during the hijacking.

On October 2 the Saudi Interior Ministry said the hijacker and the wounded pilot Capt. Smit Machchhar had been cleared by doctors after hospital treatment in Tabuk and flown to the UAE under escort by an Emirati security team. Saudi officials stated that the kingdom follows established procedures for air safety and security in such incidents. The UAE has opened its own investigation because the plane is registered there and UAE law covers crimes aboard its flagged aircraft even outside its territory.

The two men are now in UAE custody where authorities are examining the hijacker's motives and whether the act involved any planning or direction from outside. Israeli officials said their early assessment is that the co-pilot acted alone though the probe continues.11:T519,The United States has admitted refugees each fiscal year under section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act since Congress wrote the provision in 1980. That section lets the president set an annual ceiling after consulting Congress and decide how many admissions serve humanitarian concerns or the national interest. The law also lets the president name groups that can be processed as refugees while still inside their home country.

On October 1 2026 the president signed a determination that sets the ceiling for fiscal year 2027 at 17 500 refugees. The document directs that these admissions go primarily to Afrikaners from South Africa under the terms of Executive Order 14204 which established a resettlement program for that group. It subjects every admission to the screening rules in Executive Order 14161 the suspension rules in Executive Order 14163 and the entry restrictions in Proclamation 10998.

The determination also designates that Afrikaners processed under Executive Order 14204 may qualify as refugees inside South Africa itself for the purpose of admission. The Secretary of State must publish the document in the Federal Register. The 17 500 figure now stands as the operative limit for the year and the priority for Afrikaners under the listed orders governs how it is used.12:T5f3,The Internal Revenue Code has allowed a nonrefundable federal tax credit since Congress added section 25F. Taxpayers who give money to scholarship granting organizations can claim the credit against their income tax for the amount of those contributions. The organizations must first be certified by a state that has elected to take part in the program. The state reviews the groups to confirm they award scholarships only for qualified elementary and secondary school expenses.

On October 2 2026 the Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service published proposed regulations that spell out how the credit works in practice. The rules detail what counts as a qualified contribution what records taxpayers must keep how states certify organizations and what the organizations must report. They also set the schedule for a public hearing on December 15 2026 in Washington. Written comments are due by December 1 2026 and anyone who wants to speak at the hearing must submit an outline by the same date or the hearing will be cancelled.

The proposed regulations now sit inside the notice-and-comment process required before final rules can take effect. The Treasury and IRS will review every submission received through the Federal eRulemaking Portal or by mail. Once the comment period closes the agencies will decide whether to revise the text publish a final regulation or cancel the hearing if no one asks to testify. The credit itself continues to operate under the existing statute until those final rules appear.13:T4af,Notice. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 and OMB regulations, OFPP, DoD, GSA, and NASA invite the public to comment on an extension concerning certain Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 11 requirements. OFPP, DoD, GSA, and NASA invite comments on: whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of Federal Government acquisitions, including whether the information will have practical utility; the accuracy of the estimate of the burden of the proposed information collection; ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and ways to minimize the burden of the information collection on respondents, including the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. OMB has approved this information collection for use through January 31, 2027. OFPP, DoD, GSA, and NASA propose that OMB extend its approval for use for three additional years beyond the current expiration date. (Management and Budget Office, Federal Procurement Policy Office, Defense Department, General Services Administration, National Aeronautics and Space Administration)14:T4b1,The Freedom of Information Act requires federal agencies to release records unless they fall under one of nine specific exemptions written into the 1966 statute. One exemption shields documents that would reveal predecisional legal advice inside the executive branch. Since 2018 the Trump administration has used that exemption to withhold a 2019 Office of Legal Counsel memo that spells out the statutory and constitutional basis for the Pentagon to fire on drug-smuggling vessels in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific without first obtaining a warrant.

On October 1 2026 U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in Manhattan rejected two of the three arguments the government offered for keeping the entire memo secret. The 66-page opinion orders the Department of Justice to produce the document or file a fresh declaration that meets the narrow criteria the judge laid out for any remaining redactions.

The ruling leaves the government with one remaining claim still under review and sets a deadline for compliance. The case now turns on whether the administration can show that any specific lines in the memo would still expose ongoing operational methods protected by the third exemption it invoked.15:T512,The federal government has maintained the Council of Economic Advisers since Congress created it in the Employment Act of 1946. The three-member panel supplies the president with analysis of economic trends and the projected effects of policy changes. Presidents from both parties have used the council to review proposals that would alter taxes, spending, entitlements or regulation.

On October 1 the council under President Trump issued a report that calculated the ten-year fiscal impact of adopting several policies long advanced by the Democratic Socialists of America. The report placed the added cost at 49 trillion dollars, an average of more than 350 thousand dollars per household. It examined the expense of national single-payer health insurance, free public college and cancellation of existing student debt, a federal jobs guarantee, and the expansion of several income-support programs to levels the group has endorsed.

The new estimate now sits beside earlier administration forecasts of deficits under current law. It supplies a single documented baseline that lawmakers and candidates can weigh when they debate the cost of those specific expansions. The council presented the figure as the direct budgetary addition that would result if each listed policy were enacted in full.16:T44c,Lindsay Clancy, a former labor and delivery nurse, faced murder charges after the deaths of her three children at the family home in Massachusetts in 2023. Her first trial ended September 4 with a deadlocked jury after the defense argued she was not criminally responsible due to postpartum psychosis and did not dispute that she carried out the killings. Prosecutors presented evidence that she knew what she was doing when she strangled the children, ages 5, 3 and 8 months, then tried to kill herself.

On October 1, Judge William Sullivan denied a defense motion to find her not guilty. He ruled that, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to prosecutors, physical and circumstantial details would allow a rational jury to find the elements of murder beyond a reasonable doubt. The judge said it was for the jury, not the court, to weigh the expert testimony on mental illness.

Clancy remains charged with murder and held at a psychiatric hospital. Prosecutors can retry her on first-degree murder, pursue lesser charges such as second-degree murder or manslaughter, or drop the case.17:T4eb,The United Nations Security Council rotates its presidency among its 15 members on a monthly basis. Greece took the chair on 1 October as the second time it has held the position during its current two-year elected term that began in 2025. The presidency sets the monthly work programme of mandated meetings and can schedule additional signature events on topics it chooses.

On 1 October the Greek representative Aglaia Balta held a press conference at UN Headquarters in New York and listed the programme for the month. It includes two high-level signature events: a briefing on children and armed conflict on 26 October chaired by Greece’s foreign minister to mark the 30th anniversary of that mandate, and a debate on emerging technologies focused on maritime security on 29 October chaired by Greece’s prime minister. The schedule also sets mandated debates on the Middle East on 15 October and on women peace and security on 27 October, plus a joint seminar with the African Union on 21-22 October and their annual consultative meeting on 23 October. Several straw polls on the selection of the next Secretary-General are planned.

The programme now turns on the series of meetings that will run through the rest of the month under Greece’s chair.18:T43b,Christa Pike has sat on death row in Tennessee since a state court sentenced her to die in 2001 for the 1995 murder of a fellow student at the Job Corps center in Knoxville. Tennessee carried out its last execution in 2022 after a pause that began in 2009 over problems with lethal injection drugs and protocols. The state kept the death penalty on the books for capital murder cases and scheduled Pike for execution on September 30 2026.

On that date the lethal injection procedure began but was halted when medical staff could not establish reliable intravenous access after repeated attempts. The execution team stopped the process and returned Pike to her cell. Within hours she developed severe medical complications that her lawyer Randy Spivey described as the result of the prolonged effort to insert lines.

Pike remains in critical condition inside the prison medical unit and is receiving ongoing life-saving treatment. The Tennessee Department of Correction has not released details on the exact nature of her current injuries or the next step for her execution warrant.19:T515,The federal government has held title to a block of private land in Arizona since 2014 under a statute that required it to trade that land for about 2,400 acres of national forest held by a mining company. The statute directed the Forest Service to complete the swap once certain environmental reviews were finished. Lawsuits filed by the San Carlos Apache Tribe, the Apache Stronghold group and other parties argued that the exchange violated the National Environmental Policy Act, the National Historic Preservation Act and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act because the land contains a site used for religious ceremonies and holds deposits of copper.

On March 13 the Ninth Circuit panel ruled that the statute stripped courts of jurisdiction to block the transfer and that the government had met its obligations under the environmental and historic-preservation laws. On October 1 the full circuit denied every petition for rehearing and rehearing en banc, leaving the panel decision untouched.

The land exchange can now go forward. The mining company gains surface and mineral rights to the forest parcel while the United States receives the former private holdings, which total more than 5,400 acres and contain areas the government has identified as ecologically and culturally significant.1a:T42a,The International Space Station has operated in low Earth orbit since 1998 as a joint project of NASA, Roscosmos, the Canadian Space Agency, the European Space Agency and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. Crews rotate through the station on missions that last about six months, with transport provided by Russian Soyuz spacecraft and, since 2020, by SpaceX Dragon capsules launched on Falcon 9 rockets from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida.

On October 1 2026 a Falcon 9 lifted off from Space Launch Complex 40 at 18:05 UTC carrying the Crew-13 Dragon. Aboard were NASA astronauts Jessica Watkins and Luke Delaney, Canadian Space Agency astronaut Joshua Kutryk and Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergey Teteryatnikov. The spacecraft separated from the booster on schedule and began its 24-hour chase to dock with the station.

The Dragon is now en route to the International Space Station where it will deliver the four crew members for a planned six-month stay. The outgoing crew will return to Earth aboard the Crew-12 Dragon already docked at the station.1b:T539,The United States and Iran have fought an armed conflict since late February 2026. The US and Israel began strikes that month. A June memorandum lifted the dual blockades on the Strait of Hormuz and opened a 60-day negotiating window. That window collapsed on 8 July and sustained US strikes resumed. The fight has narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz.

On 1 October the US Treasury Department added Iran’s largest railroad and automotive conglomerates to its sanctions list. The department also designated two companies that control about 90 percent of the domestic auto market along with their subsidiaries and the country’s largest motorcycle manufacturer. It sanctioned key passenger and freight rail operators both state-owned and private. In addition the department targeted domestic and foreign metals manufacturers plus components of a steel and oil export network that reaches China Germany and the Dominican Republic. The measures fall under Operation Economic Outcast which the Treasury launched in late August to isolate the Islamic Republic and choke its revenue streams.

These designations now reach the rail automotive and metals sectors that remain after earlier blockades and air-travel sanctions have cut other routes. The action stands inside the ongoing naval and aerial contest over the Strait of Hormuz.1c:T5a3,The federal government holds authority over its own law enforcement operations under the Supremacy Clause of the U.S. Constitution. That clause has placed federal officers beyond state and local regulation since the founding. Maryland enacted statutes in the public safety code that bar officers from covering their faces during duties and require them to show identification on demand. Prince George’s County and Montgomery County added parallel local ordinances with the same requirements and penalties. Those measures reached federal agents whenever they operated inside the state.

On October 1 the Justice Department filed a complaint in federal court in Montgomery against the state, its attorney general, the police training commission, and the two counties. The suit charges that the mask and identification rules directly regulate federal operations, expose officers to harassment and doxing by forcing them to reveal personal details, and interfere with undercover work and other sensitive tasks. The complaint cites the specific code sections and asks the court to block their enforcement against federal personnel.

The case now turns on whether the Supremacy Clause bars the state and counties from applying those provisions to federal officers. Courts in earlier suits against similar rules in New York, Virginia, Connecticut, New Jersey, California, Philadelphia, and Milwaukee granted preliminary relief to the United States.1d:T420,The U.S. military has maintained a chaplain corps since the Revolutionary War to provide religious services to troops in the field. Over the last four decades that support operated inside the office of the under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness, where staffing, budgets, and policy decisions passed through layers of civilian administrators and legal review before they reached the secretary.

On October 1 Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth stood at Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia and announced the creation of a new Office of Religious Affairs. The office will report directly to the secretary, bypassing the previous chain, and will hold authority over resourcing, manpower, and policy for chaplain services across the armed forces.

The change shifts final decisions on religious accommodations, chapel maintenance, and chaplain assignments from career civilian staff and lawyers to an office inside the secretary’s immediate staff. The Pentagon has not yet released the office’s exact size, budget, or the name of its director.1e:T519,The federal government has run a patchwork of tax rules on charitable donations to private school scholarship groups since the 1980s. In 2025 Congress passed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. That statute created a new nationwide education tax credit that lets any taxpayer claim $1,700 against federal taxes for money given to scholarship-granting organizations that then pay for K-12 tuition at private or public schools. States must separately choose to take part for their residents to use the credit.

On October 1, 2026 the Treasury Department issued guidance that reads the 2025 law to allow married couples filing jointly to claim $3,400. The rule applies to donations made to organizations that disburse funds for both private and public school expenses. Thirty states have already opted into the program. The rest, mostly in the Northeast, Midwest and on the Pacific coast, have not.

The new dollar limit doubles the credit available to the largest group of filers and routes the money through charities rather than direct state grants. Scholarship-granting organizations now hold the power to decide which students receive the disbursed funds. Remaining states face the choice of joining or watching donations from their residents flow to out-of-state children. The credit itself begins in 2027.1f:T48d,Gasoline prices in the United States climbed through the summer driving season and held near peaks not seen in prior years. The national average for regular unleaded first crossed four dollars in late August. By the end of September it had set a new monthly record.

On October 1 the national average fell six cents from the prior week to $4.41 per gallon. The full-month September figure came in at $4.33, fifty cents above the old September high of $3.83 posted in 2023. West Texas Intermediate crude settled at $90.42 a barrel after a one-dollar gain, while the Energy Information Administration reported a 0.9-million-barrel increase in domestic crude stocks to 427.3 million barrels, two percent above the five-year average. Gasoline demand slipped from 8.84 million to 8.68 million barrels per day, supply dropped from 206 million to 204.4 million barrels, and daily production eased from 9.59 million to 9.46 million barrels.

The price decline brought the weekly average down but left it the highest recorded for early October. Public EV charging held steady at 42 cents per kilowatt-hour. State averages ranged from $6.40 in California to $3.81 in Indiana.20:T2156,Today, the world faces an energy crisis across three dimensions: our cost of living, our climate, and our sovereignty increasingly depend on our nation’s ability to supply and control its own energy. More than any other country, Canada is positioned to become the leading supplier of clean and conventional energy to ourselves and the world. To seize this opportunity, which will create hundreds of thousands of good jobs at home while reinforcing our independence and sovereignty, Canada needs to build fast and build together. That is why Canada’s new government launched the most significant regulatory reforms in generations to fast-track nation-building infrastructure. Through the Building Canada Act , the federal government can further accelerate approval processes for major projects that are determined to be in Canada’s national interest. The federal government has already referred 28 nation-building initiatives to the new Major Projects Office (MPO). This includes a new crude oil or oil pipeline to the West Coast, which Canada and Alberta are advancing in partnership . Over the past three months, the MPO conducted rigorous consultations on the pipeline proposal to determine whether this project is in Canada’s national interest, as defined by the core factors outlined in the Act. The MPO consulted with more than 130 Indigenous communities near or along potential routes in Alberta and British Columbia, as well as with federal departments and the Government of British Columbia. Today, the Prime Minister, Mark Carney, announced that the Government of Canada is officially listing the new West Coast Oil Pipeline, now known as Pacific Link, as a project of national interest. Canada and Alberta will share equal ownership of Pacific Link. Indigenous communities will be offered a minimum of 10% ownership interest , financed through Canada and Alberta’s Indigenous Loan Guarantee Programs. Pembina Pipeline Corporation is a private sector investor and is offering its expertise to project development, which is being led by the Trans Mountain Corporation – the company that just built the largest oil pipeline to Canada’s West Coast. The pipeline will follow a southern route which protects British Columbia’s North Coast and avoids highly sensitive ecosystems, including the Great Bear Sea. Over the next year, the MPO, supported by the Canada Energy Regulator (CER), will lead the federal review process and consultations with all stakeholders on the conditions for this project – including the ownership, benefits, respect for Indigenous rights, environmental protections, and local hiring and oversight – with Indigenous Peoples involved from the start. The MPO will work to finalise those conditions by September 1, 2027, clearing the way to get shovels in the ground. This means that as the project proponents work over the next year to develop a final concept – from community consultations to route mapping, ecological surveys, cost estimates, procurement, and workforce planning – they will do so with confidence that the federal government supports this project. This will transform the way Canada builds major infrastructure by giving investors and builders the certainty they need to drive projects forward. Pacific Link will reduce our dependence on the United States by allowing Canada to export an additional one million barrels a day to growing markets in Asia. It will create 140,000 jobs across the country and generate over $20 billion in GDP per year, and $100 billion in government revenue by 2060 – revenue that will help build the infrastructure and homes Albertans, British Columbians, and all Canadians need, and protect the social programs they rely on every day, from health care and dental care to child care. This pipeline is one part of the Government of Canada’s broader mission to transform our economy – to double our non-U.S. exports over the next decade, create tens of thousands of good jobs, attract billions in new investment, and unlock our full potential as a global energy superpower. Pacific Link is a transformative project, but its full potential will only be unlocked by the initiatives the Government of Canada is leading across the country. We are working with the Government of British Columbia to expand the container terminal at Roberts Bank and the future marine terminal to export crude from Pacific Link. We are advancing new measures to protect our oceans as maritime traffic grows. And we are working with the Government of Alberta to advance the Pathways Project, one of the world’s largest carbon capture and storage projects, to keep Albertan oil competitive for the long term. Together with the governments of Alberta and British Columbia, Indigenous communities, and the private sector, we are building a strong Canada that works – a Canada where growth and conservation go hand in hand, and where prosperity is shared. Pacific Link will help unlock Canada’s potential as a global energy superpower, transform our economy, diversify our trade, and strengthen our strategic autonomy – ensuring Canadians can continue to live our lives as we choose. Quotes “Canada has a once-in-a-generation opportunity to become a global energy superpower. To create hundreds of thousands of good jobs. To transform our economy. To diversify our trade. To become less reliant on a single trade partner. To achieve greater strategic autonomy, so we can continue to live our lives as we choose. Pacific Link is critical to this mission. To seize this opportunity, we are building together – boldly, sustainably, and in true partnership with Indigenous Peoples. In a more dangerous, divided world, Canada is working.” The Rt. Hon. Mark Carney, Prime Minister of Canada “Today marks a significant victory for Alberta’s and Canada’s energy future. The listing of Pacific Link as a project of national interest demonstrates what can be achieved when governments work together to advance nation-building infrastructure. Today marks an important step toward expanding market access, strengthening our economy, and reinforcing Alberta’s position as a reliable global energy supplier.” The Hon. Danielle Smith, Premier of Alberta Quick facts The West Coast Oil Pipeline, now known as Pacific Link, has now been listed as a project of national interest under Schedule 1 of the Building Canada Act . Listing enables the project to proceed through a single federal regulatory review process that will inform the development of a conditions document. The Building Canada Act includes a dedicated listing consultation phase that gathers information from Indigenous communities whose rights may be affected, provinces and territories, federal departments, and interested parties. The listing consultation process is intended to identify issues early and support the development of mitigation measures before the regulatory review advances. The Government of Canada remains committed to fulfilling its duty to consult and respecting Aboriginal and treaty rights throughout the project’s review process. Over the next year, the MPO – supported by the CER – will undertake the federal review process and development of a conditions document, which would serve as the CER certificate including Fisheries Act authorisations and Species at Risk Act permits, among other federal permits, that would otherwise be issued by separate ministers. This review process will include Indigenous consultation; public hearings led by the CER on the technical, environmental, social, cultural, health, safety, and security elements of the project, as well as potential adverse effects on the rights of Indigenous peoples; and coordination by the MPO with other federal permitting departments to integrate all permits into the final conditions document. Related product Order in Council – Amending Schedule 1 to Add the West Coast Oil Pipeline Project: Explanatory Note Associated links Canada and Alberta advance west coast pipeline project proposal and Pathways Project Carbon Capture Initiative – to build a stronger, more resilient Canadian economy Canada and British Columbia strike new cooperative prosperity partnership to build a stronger, more sustainable economy Canada and Alberta strike agreement to diversify our exports, reduce emissions, and build a stronger economy Canada and Alberta strike new partnership to lower emissions, unlock our natural resources, and build a stronger, more sustainable, and more competitive economy21:T1033,Undersecretary of State to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Alfredo Mantovano, Minister of Economy and Finance Giancarlo Giorgetti, Minister for the Family, Birth Rate and Equal Opportunities Eugenia Roccella, Minister for Disabilities Alessandra Locatelli, and Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Education and Merit Paola Frassinetti met today at Palazzo Chigi with a delegation from the network of ‘Ditelo sui tetti’ associations and a delegation from the ‘Forum delle Associazioni familiari’, headed by their respective Presidents, Domenico Menorello and Adriano Bordignon. Representatives of the Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies and the Ministry of Health were also present. The meeting, the fifth held since 2022, provided an opportunity to review the measures the Government has adopted to support families, the birth rate and the most vulnerable as well as to discuss upcoming pieces of legislation, starting with the draft budget law for 2027. Undersecretary of State Mantovano and the Government representatives highlighted how the family and the birth rate have been priorities ever since entering office. Over these years, the Government has introduced, among other things, an increase to the ‘assegno unico universale’ [‘universal single allowance’], a €1,000 ‘newborn bonus’ payment, a bonus for working mothers and a lowering of tax and social security contributions for mothers with more than one child. It has also increased the allowance for three months of parental leave to 80% of earnings and has boosted the bonus payment for nursery care. Other measures include a review of the ‘ISEE’ [‘Equivalent Economic Situation Indicator’] to reduce the weighting of the main place of residence and support large families, tax deductions that take into account the composition of households, the ‘Dedicated to you’ card for the purchase of essential food items, contributions for families that enrol their children in state-approved private schools and a housing support fund for separated parents. Parliament is currently examining the Government’s draft law on acknowledging and protecting family caregivers and a reform has been initiated regarding care for the elderly, providing for a universal allowance for those who are not self-sufficient. Resources have also been increased for palliative care, including at home, and for the fight against addiction. The associations expressed their appreciation for the work carried out so far by the Government and put forward their own proposals. In particular, they asked for stronger support measures for young couples, large families and freedom of education, including through a further ISEE review. They also called for broader tax relief on employer-provided benefits; rapid approval of the draft law on family caregivers, with a particular focus on those living in the same household; an extension of palliative care to also include non-cancer patients and home care; a roll-out of continuous care models for people with severe disabilities. Undersecretary of State Mantovano and the Government representatives thanked the associations for contributing their ideas and for their daily work to support individuals and families, assuring them that their proposals would be taken into consideration in drawing up the budget, within the limits of the resources available, and that the dialogue would continue over the coming weeks. Lastly, they stressed the value of the Government’s stability and continuity of action, inviting the associations to also put their requests forward to the other institutional bodies involved in drawing up fiscal, health and welfare policies at the European level and at the regional and local levels, in order to strengthen the actions already taken by the Government in those arenas. Lingua Inglese Fonte: Il Governo Meeting held at Palazzo Chigi on measures for families, young people and the vulnerable [PHOTO] Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata Italiano22:T5a5,Pakistan and the Afghan Taliban fought as allies against US and NATO forces until the American withdrawal in 2021. Since then the two neighbors have accused each other of sheltering militants who cross the border to attack the other side. In February 2026 the clashes grew into what Pakistan called an open war with repeated ground fighting and cross-border air strikes. China mediated a ceasefire in March. A bombing that killed 24 people at a police post inside Pakistan last month broke the truce. Last week Pakistan sent aircraft to strike targets in Kandahar and other provinces, an attack the Taliban said killed four civilians.

On October 1 Pakistan launched another round of air strikes into Kunar and Helmand provinces on the Afghan side of the border. The Afghan Taliban government said the bombs hit homes and killed nine civilians, including women and children, while wounding 11 others. Pakistan’s information ministry said the strikes destroyed terrorist camps that held large stocks of weapons and ammunition and killed 22 militants. It added that planners took every measure to avoid civilian harm.

The two accounts of who died and what was hit now sit inside a relationship that has slid from wartime partnership to repeated armed exchanges across a disputed frontier. The next moves turn on whether the ceasefire can be restored or whether each side continues to strike what it calls militant targets on the other’s soil.23:T5e5,Christa Pike has sat on death row in Tennessee since a Knox County jury sentenced her to death in 1996 for the murder of 19-year-old Colleen Slemmer. Pike, then 18, and her boyfriend Tadaryl Shipp beat, tortured and killed Slemmer at a job training camp for troubled teens near Knoxville. Tennessee carries out capital sentences by lethal injection at Riverbend Maximum Security Institution in Nashville under a protocol that calls for one set of syringes followed by a backup set if the first fails to stop the heart. The state has used pentobarbital as the primary drug in that protocol for years.

On October 1, 2026, at about 8 p.m. local time, executioners at Riverbend gave Pike two full syringes of pentobarbital. The witness-room curtain closed twice, media were asked to leave the area, and Pike lost consciousness but kept a heartbeat and began snoring audibly. Her lawyers filed an emergency motion to stop the process while it was under way. She was taken from the prison to an off-site hospital where staff began life-saving measures.

The Department of Correction says it followed every step of the protocol approved by the attorney general's office and that the chemical has worked in prior executions. Governor Bill Lee ordered a third-party review of what happened and postponed the state's remaining execution scheduled for later in 2026. Pike's legal team says the state failed to carry out a lawful execution. Tennessee's corrections department has transported her to the medical facility.24:T513,Russian forces have pressed attacks along the front line in eastern Ukraine since they seized the city of Avdiivka in February 2024 and began advancing westward toward the logistics hub of Pokrovsk.

On October 1 the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces reported 209 combat clashes with Russian units over the previous 24 hours. Russian forces carried out 22 missile strikes, 78 air strikes with 277 guided bombs, 7,650 kamikaze drone launches and 2,656 artillery and mortar strikes on Ukrainian positions and settlements. Ukrainian aviation, missile units and artillery struck one Russian troop concentration area and two command posts. The largest number of clashes, 33, occurred in the Pokrovsk sector where Russian units tried to advance near Serhiivka, Molodetske, Hulive, Svitle, Novomykolaivka, Vilne, Kucheriv Yar, Stepy, Bilytske and Vodianske. Russian forces also launched 16 assaults in the Kostiantynivka sector, 13 in the Southern Slobozhanshchyna sector and smaller numbers in the Kupiansk, Lyman, Sloviansk, Kramatorsk and other sectors while Ukrainian units repelled them all.

The front now turns on continued Russian pressure in the Pokrovsk sector against Ukrainian efforts to hold the line with defensive fire and counterstrikes on Russian command and concentration areas.25:T40f,Russian strikes on Ukraine’s power plants and transmission lines have increased since the summer of 2024, when Moscow shifted its campaign from front-line advances to repeated hits on the electricity grid that supplies heat and light for civilians through the winter. Kyiv’s repair crews have worked to restore capacity after each wave, but officials have said the system now operates with far less reserve than it held before the first large strikes in 2022.

On Wednesday Russian forces carried out their largest combined missile and drone attack on that grid in months. The strikes killed seven people, knocked out power in the capital and several surrounding provinces, and forced emergency blackouts while repair teams began assessments.

The grid now stands with reduced output entering the cold season. Emergency measures limit electricity use in the affected regions, and the pace of winter preparation depends on how quickly damaged substations and generating units can be brought back online before temperatures drop further.26:T725,Rule. The Rural Business-Cooperative Service (RBCS or the Agency), an agency of the Rural Development (RD) mission area within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is issuing a final rule with comment period. Implementation of this action will simplify and streamline requirements and processes in the Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). Under the new REAP structure, projects must already be fully built and operational before the applicant ever applies. Applicants then apply, submitting actual energy production or savings data for the prior 12 months, alongside 12 months of pre-installation data. The Agency evaluates applications for completeness, eligibility, risk, and merit and will award grants subject to the availability of funds and criteria provided in an annual notice. This new approach changes the program to a post completion, performance validated model. All RES and EEI awards will now be based on actual documented output, energy savings, costs, and system performance. Bottlenecks leading to application processing backlogs such as the technical merit review clearance process have been removed from the Agency's purview. Multilocation projects and specific application of certain technologies are now ineligible, and the program proposes to eliminate state level competitions in favor of a single national scoring and selection process. The result is a streamlined but significantly different process intended to reduce risk to the program, simplify administration, and prioritize projects delivering verifiable results. The result of these changes, combined with the release of a planned online application portal, will significantly decrease burden for applicants by shortening application length and review times across the program. (Agriculture Department, Rural Business-Cooperative Service)27:T455,Proposed Rule. This document announces receipt of a petition for rulemaking received by DOT on February 27, 2026, to initiate a rulemaking to amend 49 CFR part 40. The petitioner's proposed amendments seek to incorporate structured medical verification standards when an employee asserts a plausible medical explanation for abnormal specimen validity findings, including abnormal pH values. Specifically, the petitioner proposes: a defined and finite documentation submission window; required written Medical Review Officer determinations addressing submitted documentation; defined evaluation standards for abnormal urinary chemistry findings; consideration of specialist consultation when diagnosed voiding disorders are asserted; and (5) documented review of medically supported functional voiding disorders prior to verifying refusal determinations based on inability to provide a specimen under direct observation. Through this notification, DOT seeks comment on the petition, as well as any information that could be used in DOT's determination whether to grant the petition. (Transportation Department)28:T5b2,U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has administered a set of fixed immigration fees since the One Big Beautiful Bill Act took effect on July 4 2025. That law set minimum fee amounts for fiscal year 2025 under the Immigration and Nationality Act, required annual adjustment according to the change in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, and ordered those adjustments rounded down to the next lowest multiple of ten dollars. USCIS first published the base fees in a notice dated July 22 2025, added the separate one-thousand-dollar parole fee on October 16 2025, and applied the first inflation update for fiscal year 2026 in a notice dated November 21 2025 that took effect January 1 2026.

On September 30 2026 the agency released a new notice that sets the second round of inflation-adjusted fees for fiscal year 2027. The adjustment uses the percentage change in the index from July 2025 to July 2026 and follows the same rounding rule written into the 2025 statute. The updated amounts apply to every immigration benefit request postmarked on or after October 16 2026; any filing that arrives without the new correct fee will be rejected.

The fees now stand at the levels fixed by the fiscal year 2027 calculation and remain subject to the same annual Consumer Price Index adjustment schedule required by the original law. The next update will be calculated from the July 2026 to July 2027 index period and published later this year.29:T4f0,Lane Community College in Oregon expelled student Richard Riordan from campus and placed a registration hold on him that ran through the year 2099. The school acted after he spoke at board meetings and sent emails that criticized how the trustees set spending priorities. Those comments compared the board to the villain from the 2001 film Shrek and used other sharp language the trustees called aggressive.

On October 1, 2026, U.S. District Judge Michael McShane issued a preliminary injunction that requires the college to lift the trespass order and the enrollment block. The judge ruled that Riordan's statements, while at times annoying, long-winded, aggressive, hyperbolic, and grandiose, did not amount to a true threat under the First Amendment. He found no evidence that Riordan posed a danger to anyone and noted that footage of a parking-lot exchange after one meeting had not been offered by the college.

The college must now let Riordan register for classes and return to campus, though the order keeps in place a narrower ban on his attendance at board meetings or direct contact with trustees. The case turns on whether the remaining restrictions satisfy constitutional limits on public institutions when they regulate speech by enrolled students.2a:T5ff,The United States has barred the export of certain high-performance computer servers containing advanced graphics processing units to China without a license from the Department of Commerce since 2022. Those rules list the specific models that can contribute to military applications and require exporters to know the true end user and final destination before any sale. Earthmade Computer Inc., a company based in the City of Industry east of Los Angeles, bought and shipped such servers during that period.

On September 29 a federal grand jury in Los Angeles returned a three-count indictment against Greg Lui, the 38-year-old owner of Earthmade. The charges are conspiracy to violate the Export Control Reform Act and its regulations, outbound smuggling, and conspiracy to commit money laundering. Prosecutors say Lui and others bought more than $300 million worth of the restricted servers from U.S. makers between 2023 and 2024, sent false end-user statements claiming the items would stay in countries that need no license, routed the shipments through Malaysia and Singapore, and then moved them on to buyers in China. From January to October 2024 the company received more than $176 million from two Malaysia-based freight firms as payment for the diverted goods.

Lui was arrested in California on October 1 and appeared in federal court the same day for arraignment. The case now turns on whether prosecutors can prove he knew the ultimate destination was China and that the paperwork he supplied to manufacturers was false.2b:T646,A federal law that makes it a crime to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization has stood since 1996. That statute reaches anyone who knowingly gives resources, including expert advice or assistance, to a group the State Department has placed on the list.

On October 1, 2026, FBI agents in Washington state arrested Ashton Hamed Ellaboudy, a 51-year-old Department of Energy employee who lives in Richland. Court records show the FBI first received information that he had bought precursor chemicals and parts used to build homemade explosive devices and drones. In December 2024 he took sick leave after claiming exposure to concentrated nitric acid, a chemical tied to explosives. In September 2025 he used an old Army Corps of Engineers passport to travel from Richland to Oman and then crossed into Yemen, heading for Sanaa, the Houthi-controlled capital. He told customs officers the trip was official government business, but his supervisor later said no such authorization existed. After he returned, Ellaboudy began communicating with an FBI source who posed as an agent for a Houthi officer seeking communications gear. He supplied electrical-engineering advice, tested and modified solar generators and radio equipment, drew schematics for integration, and researched additional components.

The arrest places the case inside the Eastern District of Washington, where Ellaboudy faces a maximum of 20 years if convicted. He is set to appear before a federal magistrate judge on October 2 at 11 a.m. in Richland. The charges remain allegations until proven in court.2c:T4ba,The United States has maintained sanctions under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act since the 1980s to block designated foreign persons and entities from access to the US financial system. The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers those sanctions by adding names to its list and freezing any assets those names hold inside US jurisdiction or in the hands of US persons.

On September 30 2026 the Office of Foreign Assets Control added ten Venezuelan nationals and several companies they control to that list. The department stated the individuals ran a network that installed malware on dozens of automated teller machines to steal card data and cash which the group then laundered through the named companies.

The designations block the ten people and the companies from any transaction that touches the United States or its banks. The move sits inside the broader US effort to disrupt transnational criminal organizations that use stolen funds to finance operations inside and outside Venezuela. The sanctions now stand as the latest entry on the list and turn on whether the named parties hold assets reachable by US banks or partners who comply with the freeze.2d:T57d,The United Nations General Assembly first called for a study on nuclear-weapon-free zones in resolution 79/241. That resolution directed the secretary-general to convene a group of qualified experts from across the world to review the status of existing zones and to look at ways to strengthen them or create new ones, including in the Middle East. The group worked through 2025 and 2026 under the principles and guidelines laid out by the Disarmament Commission in its 1999 report. Member states sent written contributions and took part in two in-person meetings with the chair.

The group, chaired by Maria Cecilia Barcelos Cavalcante Vieira of Brazil, finished its work and adopted the study unanimously on 17 July 2026. The United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs released the document, numbered A/81/293, on 29 September. The text sets out reflections on the treaties that govern current zones, the regional differences that shape them, and options for future action. It does not speak for any government and leaves national positions untouched.

The study now sits with member states and the disarmament bodies as a reference document. Secretary-General António Guterres wrote in the foreword that he invites states and the relevant international machinery to examine and carry out the group’s recommendations. The full text is available in the six official languages of the United Nations.2e:T448,The Federal Reserve has spent the last several years renovating its headquarters building on Constitution Avenue in Washington under a budget that reached $2.5 billion. Congress gave the central bank independent authority over its own facilities in the Federal Reserve Act and has required periodic reports on major projects since the 1990s. The White House had raised objections that certain design elements went beyond what the approved plans allowed and called some of them ostentatious.

On September 30 2026 the inspector general of the Federal Reserve Board released an audit that examined the contracting decisions, change orders and final costs. The report found that every major contract followed federal procurement rules and that none of the disputed features violated the plans that had been submitted to the oversight bodies.

The renovation now stands closed as a matter of internal compliance. The inspector general’s clearance removes any legal barrier to completing the final phases and hands day-to-day decisions on remaining expenditures back to the Fed’s facilities staff.2f:T4cb,Passengers on a Flydubai flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv had settled in for the three-hour trip on September 30 when the aircraft began an uncontrolled descent. The plane dropped 17,000 feet in under two minutes, cabin lights went out, and people screamed as it lost altitude over the region between the two cities.

One passenger, Yaniv Hayun, noticed the sudden drop and joined others forcing the cockpit door open. The stabbed pilot, still conscious, managed to unlock it before collapsing. Hayun and another man entered to find the attacker between the seats reaching for the instruments. Hayun applied a chokehold, dragged him into the cabin, and called for help from other Israeli passengers on board. They pinned the attacker down, secured him with zip ties and headphone cords, while Hayun returned to the controls and began pulling them to level the aircraft. Two off-duty pilots who had been seated among the passengers then took over the cockpit.

The plane diverted and landed safely at Tabuk airport in northwestern Saudi Arabia. Passengers were later flown to Tel Aviv on a repatriation flight where they were met by crowds waving flags. The stabbed pilot, an Indian national, received medical treatment on arrival.30:T4a6,The United States has imported liquefied natural gas from overseas suppliers since the first terminal opened in 1959. Domestic production grew after the shale boom of the 2010s but still faces pipeline bottlenecks in Alaska where known reserves sit far from tidewater export terminals. Congress passed the Alaska LNG Project Authorization in 2021 to speed permitting for a 800-mile line from the North Slope to a Cook Inlet terminal.

On September 30 2026 South Korea’s government committed up to 200 billion dollars to build that Alaska pipeline carry the gas to market and construct one new natural gas-fired power plant in Texas plus eight nuclear reactors at sites across the continental United States. President Trump announced the package in the Oval Office after meetings with South Korean officials who will direct the capital through state-owned Korea Gas Corporation and Korea Electric Power Corporation.

The agreement now turns on obtaining final federal permits for the Alaska line and on siting approvals from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the eight reactors. Construction timelines and exact allocation of the 200 billion dollars remain subject to those clearances.31:T5a5,NASA has run operations on the Moon since the first crewed landing in 1969. For decades those operations relied on radio links built for short surface stays and direct Earth contact. In the last ten years the agency has shifted to plans for sustained bases that will need local data networks able to move voice, video, telemetry, and control signals among rovers, habitats, and suited crew without constant Earth relay.

On September 30, 2026, NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Cleveland awarded Modulate Space Corporation a firm-fixed-price contract worth about 38 million dollars. The contract splits into two sequential tasks. The first runs from October 1, 2026, to January 31, 2028, and requires the company to build and demonstrate a 5G network-in-a-box unit with integrated Wi-Fi 6 in a laboratory setting. The second runs from November 30, 2026, to December 31, 2028, and calls for delivery of flight-ready hardware, firmware, and software that will be tested in an actual lunar-surface environment.

The work now stands at the start of the first performance period. NASA will receive the lab prototype, measure its radio propagation on the lunar surface, and use the data to decide what changes the architecture needs before the flight demonstration. The outcome turns on whether the integrated 5G and Wi-Fi 6 system can deliver scalable, standards-based coverage that meets the data loads required for continuous lunar-base operations.32:T434,The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 gave the secretary of state power to revoke visas issued to foreign nationals at any time. Congress has amended that statute over the decades but left the core authority in place. The State Department has used it for decades to cancel individual visas when officers later find evidence of criminal convictions, application fraud, or other disqualifying factors after entry.

On September 30, 2026, the department announced it had revoked more than 250,000 visas since the start of the current administration. The revocations targeted cases that met the statutory grounds for ineligibility, including criminal records, misrepresentation on applications, entry for the purpose of giving birth on U.S. soil to secure citizenship for the child, and information that raised national-security concerns.

The total now stands at more than 250,000 canceled visas. The department continues to review existing visas against updated screening databases and to cancel those that no longer meet the statutory requirements for continued validity.33:T555,Ukrainian infantry units on the Huliaipole front in Zaporizhzhia Oblast have relied for months on a mix of foot carries, armoured ambulances and small drones to move wounded soldiers back from positions under constant Russian drone and mine threat. Ground robots first entered regular evacuation work early in 2026 when the defence ministry began scaling up their supply and operator training. By August the fleet logged 25,143 logistical and medical runs along the contact line, up from 7,511 in January.

On 30 September soldiers of the 5th Separate Kyiv Assault Brigade loaded four wounded men onto a single unmanned ground vehicle in two separate trips. The robot carried the first pair to a transfer point, returned after recharging, then carried the second pair. One of the four was in critical condition. The entire move required escort by Mavic drones for spotting and interceptor drones overhead to block Russian UAV strikes. Video released by the 7th Rapid Response Corps shows the final hand-off from the robot to a conventional evacuation vehicle.

The four men reached a stabilisation point and then a hospital. The 7th Corps stated that evacuations still demand combined methods but that ground robots now let crews complete some legs without exposing additional personnel. The number of robot missions has risen 3.3 times since the start of the year.34:T671,The Supreme Court first ruled in 1974 that veterans could bring constitutional claims about benefits decisions in federal court. Congress responded 14 years later by passing the Veterans’ Judicial Review Act. That statute routes every challenge to a benefits decision first through a board inside the Department of Veterans Affairs, then to the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, and finally to the Federal Circuit. The act gives those three forums exclusive power over such disputes and bars district courts from hearing them.

On September 30 the justices will hear Johnson v. United States Congress. Floyd Johnson served in the Army from 1983 to 1985. After Florida convicted him of state felonies in 2013 and sentenced him to 40 years, the VA granted him disability benefits for post-traumatic stress disorder at 70 percent, later raised to 80 percent on appeal. The VA then reduced the rating to 10 percent under a statute that caps payments for veterans incarcerated more than 60 days. Johnson sued Congress in district court in Florida, arguing the cap violates the bill of attainder clause and the Fifth Amendment. The district court dismissed the suit in 2022. The 11th Circuit affirmed in August 2025, holding that sovereign immunity blocked the claim against Congress and that the Veterans’ Judicial Review Act made any substitution of the VA futile because district courts lack jurisdiction.

The case now turns on whether the 1988 act allows a district court to hear a constitutional attack on the cap itself or whether every such claim must still travel the exclusive route the statute created.

The account stands at 218 words.35:T4f1,The United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia have tightened security cooperation with the United States and Israel since Iran fired missiles toward UAE waters on 19 August 2026 and the fighting over the Strait of Hormuz narrowed to nightly strikes and tanker escorts. The two Gulf states had already cut trade with Iran after those missile launches and joined American-led patrols that keep the strait open to flagged shipping.

On 30 September 2026 a co-pilot on FlyDubai flight FZ 1073 from Dubai to Tel Aviv stabbed the captain in the cockpit while the plane carried mostly Israeli passengers. The aircraft descended more than 14 000 feet in under 30 seconds before passengers forced their way through the unlocked cockpit door, subdued the attacker and pulled the controls back to level flight. The crew diverted the jet to Tabuk airport in Saudi Arabia where it landed safely; no passengers were injured.

Saudi authorities treated both pilots for their wounds then handed them and the co-pilot over to Emirati security officials on 1 October. UAE prosecutors opened an investigation into whether the stabbing constitutes a terrorist act. Israeli officials stated the co-pilot tried to crash the plane by disabling its systems but have not yet confirmed a motive.36:Tbf5,“Ume tapueun mak minu-tapishimitishun kie kaishkuteusht kukushakup, tshissinuashteuanan anitshenat ka shaputueshkakau, anitshenat ka nenekatshinitau, ka nenekatenimianitau ka kamitshitutaunit, nitshissinishtauanan anitshenat auassat eka nita ka tshiuetau kie nitshissituanan uikanishimauat kie innu-assia. Tshekat peikumitashumitannuepipun, 150 000 essimeu-auassat, innu-auassat kie mashinuat utinakanipan nete tetshe uikanishuauat, eku itashauanit anite innu-auassat ka kunenimanit Ne ka ishi pimutanut ui mishkutinanipan, ne ui utataikanipan tshetshi eka innu-aimitau, tshetshi eka ishi inniutau utiniunnuau. Utaua-tshishe-utshimau tshimitapam kie shutshiteieshkamupan, kie Canada utinam nenu ka ishi katshitauet kie ka ishi tshitimiuet. Anu 6 600 ka itutetau anite innu-auasse mamishitshmuipan kie aimipan anite CRV mamuitun tshetshi uitakan ute tan miam ka ishpan ute Canada eka ka ui uapatan. E tapuetatshishut, ne Canada tshi uapatamupan tshekuanu ka ishpen, e tshissinuashtakanit anitshenat kie ka tshi minu-mamitunenitakan. Apu mukᵘ tshiamᵘ takuninit tshetshi tshissinuashtakanit. Takut tshi tutakan atusseun. Ne 94 ka uitakanikau anite CVR ka uauitakanikau takun mashinaikan tshetshi nashakan. E uitshi atussemakanitau Innuat, Essimeuat kie mashinuat, tshishe-utshimau ui itshetishinam nenu pepeshek ka tutuanit innuat anu ma minat anite minu-inniuan, katshishkutamatsheutshuap, tshetshi akua tutakanikau innu-aimuna kie innu-aitun, tshetshi unipimitau kie tshetshi minukaputau mitshuapa anite innit. Ninikanishtanan tshetshi kaimitunanut anite ishkueuat, ishkuessit mak anitshenat 2ELGBTQI+ka uniakanitau mak ka nipiakanitau, kie ninashenan ne kamamuitut tshishe-utshimau mashinaikan ( United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act). Anutshish, ute kakusseshit kie kakusseshishkueuat ute Canada tshika pushtashkamuat ka ishkuteushinit kukushakapunu kie tshika ituteuat anite e tshissinuashtakanit anitshenat innu-auassat eka nita ka tshiuetau uitshuauat kie tshetshi ishpitenimakanit anitshenat kuishkᵘ ka imitau, tshetshi kassinu kakusseshit kie kakusseshishkueuat tshetshi pushipanitau anite minu-tapishinun.” Etatu ui minu-natussenitamekᵘ: Takun ka imitunanut tshetshi natutuninit anitshenat ka itutetau anite innu auasse ka kunenimanit , nishunue-tatupiakiana ashu neu, eka tshetshi shetishiekᵘ kie appu uen tshikut tshissenitakᵘ 1-866-925-4419, pitshitinamᵘ uauitshiushinu nenu ka ituteninit anite innu-auasse kakunenimanit kie uikanishinu tshetshi uauitamkunau mitshetui e tshi uauitshikuiekᵘ. Ne ka aimitunanut tshetshi natutakuiek tshetshi minu-inniuiek pitshitiman uitshiaushinu ishinakuet tshetshi uanenitakan anite kaimitunanut, eka e tshishikashiekᵘ, kie mak anite katusseutshitapatakan kie kassinu innu. Pitshitinikinau 24 tatupaikanna kie nishtuasht tatutshishikua tshetshi aiminau kie akanishau-aiminanun, e natuenitamek, Eeyou, ojibway kie Inuktitut Teuat kupanieshat e ishi pukutatau ne e ishiniuiekᵘ kie tshetshi imiauauat 1-855-242-3310 kie mak katusseutshitapatakan hopeforwellness.ca .37:T10ea,“Ku ɂedırı Dzı̨ne Nųt’ą Sehenųt’a chu Ɂełtth’ı́ ɂası hołé bası chu Jıthoghelahot’ı̨ desısɂı̨h Dzı̨ne nųt’ą k’é, t’ą hadaghı̨na benahonı̨ sı Dene xare kuę naraı̨dé nı̨sı, ɂeyı sekuı t’ą bekuę nı̨deł hılé tth’ı́ benahonı̨, chu t’ą beghą sekuı besdoghı̨ghą bel nadaretnılya ɂeją dųhųn. K’asj̨ęnę łǫnǫną nęnę ɂası, 150,000 Ɂąsı Denededłı̨ne, Hotena, chu Begharek’ą sekuı betthıkuı́ ch’ası hełya nı̨, bekuę, chu t’ok’e naradé nı̨ ch’ası hełya ɂeyer dene xare kuę naradé ha. T’ąxa ɂeyı nı̨t’ą nı̨sı sekuı t’ą hęlı̨ ch’ası nı̨lya benı̨ naret’a ha beyatıe ch’ası, bech’alanı̨ye chu t’ą hęlı̨ ch’ası chu t’ąt’u ghena nı̨sı ch’ası. T’ą nąne hoɂa k’oldé ɂeyı nı̨yı̨la chu tsamba yets’ęn nı̨la nı̨, chu Canada ɂedı̨nı̨ nółther k’esı danı̨dhęn sı dųhų chu t’ąt’u dene hel due nųnı̨ɂą k’odorelyą sı. K’asjęnę 6,600 ɂąsı t’ą Hadaghı̨na chu t’ą benalé nodher sı dene nalé hadayaı̨łtı nı̨ t’ok’e ɂedırı Ɂełtth’ı́ nųt’a chu horegoth nųt’a ghą yaghı̨tı hudher nı̨ t’a bel t’a nodher sı ghą hodoghelnı̨ gh̨a Canada holą nęnę ɂeyı k’anı̨łtaıle nı̨. T’ą ɂeyı ghą hadayaı̨łtı k’ı́ Canada yeretth’ągh nı̨, yenałnı̨ chu yeghą nanéde nı̨. Ɂeyı dene Hadaghı̨na k’ı́ benahonı̨ ɂąsı nı̨t’a hoɂą. Ɂası beba naıłna hoɂą. Ku t’a Ɂełtth’ı chu Sehenųt’ą dene t’a yatı dathełtsı̨ nı̨sı 94 t’a Yatı Holı̨ bet’a ɂası Naılna hoɂą k’e ɂeyı ɂası hołé ha hoɂąsı dųhų. Ku t’ok’e Dendedłı̨ne, Hotena, chu Begharek’ą dene bel ɂası k’enaıdé ha, nuhnı̨ t’ą k’ohıldé bel ɂası k’enaıde ha hothılɂąsı dene nakoghodı k’e chu ɂerıhtł’ıs kuę bası, Denededłı̨ne yatı tth’ı́ k’onı̨ ha dene ts’eraıdı ha bech’alanı̨ye hel, ɂeyı chu tu soreldhęn tth’ı́ ba hųlı̨ hoɂą benęnę k’eyaghe, ɂeyı hel benęnę k’eyaghe t’a ɂası hedı̨ narałtı sı tth’ı́ bel sehenúnıt’a hoɂą. Ku t’ą Dene dorólé sı beba Ɂełtth’ı́ nunı́t’a hoɂą Dole chu Łeghąldé t’ą Ts’ekuı, Ts’ekuıɂase hu, ɂeyı chu t’ą ɂełghą danı̨dhęn 2SLGBTQI+ dene bebası, ɂeyı hel t’a Nı̨h bąnı̨ Yatı Nedhé holı̨ Denededłı̨ne haralɂa Bek’anota hoɂą ha Yatı Nedhé holı̨ nı̨. Dų dzı̨ne k’é, Canada nąne hoɂa dene jıetthoghe lahot’ı̨ ɂası ɂarat’ı̨ chu ɂası k’enats’edé ha ɂeyı sekuı benahonı̨ ha t’ą bekuę nı̨del hılé sı beba – ɂeyı hel t’a nodher sı benahonı̨ hoɂą t’ą Hadaghı̨na t’a yatı dathełtsı̨ benahonı̨ hoɂą Canadian dene t’ąt’u dene he sehenųɂa ha hok’enadé begharé.” Ku ɂałų beghą yatı horı̨łɂı̨h dé ɂeją neba hoɂąsı: T’a dzı̨ne k’etł’a bets’ęn yatı ha hoɂą 24-sadzıe neba ts’ethı̨ye chu dene neghą bel ɂesohodı haılé ɂeją ts’ęn Nąne hoɂą Dene xare kuę naraı̨dé t’ok’e Dene ba hoɂą beghą yatı hozelɂı̨h de ɂeją , ɂeją ts’ęn dųłtsı nanı̨le 1-866-925-4419, t’oho dene ha horená de bets’edı ha nųt’a t’ą Hadaghı̨na sı chu bekuę bası ɂeyı hel t’ąt’u bets’edı walı sı ba hoɂą ɂeją Canada t’ą K’oldé bets’ı̨ɂąne. T’ą dene ha hoɂą sehóɂą nųt’a t’ok’e bets’ęn yatı ha kudąne dene ts’edı ha nųt’ąsı, nanı̨le bets’ęn yatı chu tsątsąne benı̨ hųlı̨ k’e dene he yatı tth’ı́ hoɂą t’oho losı dene benı̨ łą de dene hel yałtı horelɂı̨h de Denededłı̨ne Canada nąne hoɂá naradé sı bası. Beyeyatı huto tsątsąne benı̨ hųlı̨ k’e dene ha hoɂąsı dzırata k’etł’a 24/7 Tthot’ı̨ne chu Bąlaı yatı t’a. Ku Ɂena, Ojibway, huto Hotena Inuktitut yatı ɂa tth’ı́ hųlı̨. Dene ɂeyı ha honełtą nadarełya sı ɂeją nanı̨le dųłtsı 1‑855‑242‑3310 huto ɂeją hopeforwellness.ca .38:T1861,“ᐁᑲᐧ ᐅᐁᐧ ᒥᓯᐁᐧ ᑭᔑᑲᐣ ᑲᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᒋᑲᑌᐠ ᑌᐯᐤᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᐢᑯᐅᓴᐃᐧ ᐱᑕᐁᐧᐡᑭᑲᐣ ᑭᔑᑲᐣ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᓂᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐊᐧᒥᓇᐠ ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐡᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑕᓇᐠ ᑲᓇᑕ ᑲᑭᐱᒧᑐᒋᐣ ᑭᐦᑭᓄᐦᐊᒪᑫᐃᐧᑲᒥᑯᐣ, ᒥᓇ ᐁᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐊᐧᔭᐠ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᔕᐠ ᐁᑲ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᐱᑭᐁᐧᐊᐧᐨ, ᒥᓇ ᐁᐃᐧᒋᑲᐸᐃᐧᑕᐊᐧᔭᐠ ᑎᐯᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᑕᔑᑫᐧᐃᓇᐣ ᑭᔭᐱᐨ ᑲᐱᒧᑐᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑫᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ ᐅᒪᒋᓭᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ. ᐊᒥᐁᐧ ᐊᔕᔾ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᒣ ᒥᑕᓱᒥᑕᓇᐁᐧᔭᐦᑭ, ᐅᑫᐧᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᒣ 150,000 ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐠ, ᐁᓀᐃᐧᐟ ᐁᑲᐧ ᐃᐧᓴᑯᑌᐃᐧᓂᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᔕᐠ ᑲᑭᐅᑕᐱᓇᑲᓄᐊᐧᐸᐣ ᐅᒪ ᐅᓂᑭᐦᐃᑯᐊᐧᐣ, ᐅᑎᐯᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᐅᑕᔑᑫᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᐅᒋ ᐊᐱᐣ ᐅᑕᓇᐠ ᑲᓇᑕ ᑭᐦᑭᓄᐦᐊᒪᑫᐃᐧᑲᒥᑯᐣ ᑲᑭᔓᓇᑲᓄᐊᐧᐸᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᐅᐁᐧ ᐅᓇᒋᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐊᐦᐃᐣ ᑭᔭᐸᒋᒋᑲᑌᐊᐧᐣ ᐊᓂᐦᐃᐁᐧᐃᐧ ᐅᓇᔓᐁᐧᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᒥᐡᑯᐨ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᔕᐠ ᒋᐊᐧᓂᑐᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑎᔑᑭᔑᐁᐧᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ, ᐅᑕᓂᔑᓂᐊᐧᑎᓱᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ, ᐅᑭᑫᓂᒥᑎᓱᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᐅᑎᔑᐱᒪᑎᓱᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᑲᓇᑕ ᐅᑭᒪᐃᐧᐣ ᑲᑭᐅᓇᑐᐸᐣ ᒥᓇ ᑲᑭᐱᒧᑐᐸᐣ ᐅᐁᐧ ᐱᒧᒋᑫᐃᐧᐣ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᑲᓇᑕ ᐅᑭᒪᐃᐧᐣ ᒪᔭᑦ ᐅᐁᐧ ᐸᐸᒥᓯ ᑲᑭᑐᑕᐁᐧᒪᑲᐠ ᒥᓇ ᑲᑭᒪᒋᓴᐦᐃᐁᐧᒪᑲᐠ. ᐊᐊᐧᔑᒣ 6,600 ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐢᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᒥᓇ ᑲᑭᐊᐧᐸᑫᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑭᐊᓂᒧᑕᓇᐊᐧᐸᐣ ᑲᐊᒪᐧᔦ ᒪᒋᒋᑲᑌᐠ ᑌᐯᐤᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᑭᐦᒋᐊᓄᑭᑕᒪᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐁᑭᑎᐸᒋᑕᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᑫᑯᓇᐣ ᑲᑭᐃᐧᓴᑲᐤᐦᐃᑯᐊᐧᐨ ᐁᑲᐧ ᐁᑲ ᑲᓇᑕ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᐸᐱᐢᑫᐣᑕᑭᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᐁᑲ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᔕᑫᐧᓂᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᑎᐸᒋᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᑫᒋᓇᐨ ᑲᓇᑕ ᒋᓇᑐᑕᐠ, ᒋᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐠ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᒋᒪᒥᑎᓀᐣᑕᐠ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᐡᑕᐦᐃ ᑫᑯᓇᐣ ᓂᒪᓯᓇᐦᐊᒪᐊᐧᒥᓇᐠ ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐢᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑎᐡᑯᓂᐠ ᐅᐁᐧ ᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐅᒋ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᓇ ᓂᒪᓯᓇᐦᐊᒪᐊᐧᒥᓇᐠ ᑭᔭᐱᐨ ᑫᑯᓇᐣ ᒋᐊᓄᑲᑌᑭᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᑌᐯᐤᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᑭᐦᒋᐊᓄᑭᓇᑲᓇᐠ 94 ᑫᑯᓇᐣ ᒋᑐᒋᑲᑌᑭᐣ ᑲᑭᐸᑭᑎᓇᒧᐊᐧᐸᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᑭᔭᐱᐨ ᐅᑫᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ ᐸᑯᓭᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᒋᐱᒥᐊᓄᑲᒋᑲᑌᑭᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᑲᐃᐧᑕᓄᑭᒪᔭᐠ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐠ, ᐁᓂᐃᐧᐟ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᐃᐧᓴᑯᑌᐃᐧᓂᓂᐊᐧᐠ, ᓂᐦᑐᑭᒪᐃᐧ ᐱᒧᒋᑫᐃᐧᓂᓇᐣ ᐅᐱᒥᐊᓄᑲᑕᐣ ᑲᐧᔭᐠ ᒋᐃᐧᒋᒋᑲᑌᑭᐣ ᒪᐡᑭᑭᐃᐧ ᐱᒧᒋᑫᐃᐧᐣ, ᑭᐦᑭᓄᐦᐊᒪᑫᐃᐧᐣ, ᒥᓇ ᒋᑲᓇᐁᐧᐣᒋᑲᑌᑭᐣ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐃᐧ ᐃᔑᑭᔑᐁᐧᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᒥᓇ ᐃᔑᐱᒪᑎᓱᐃᐧᓇᐣ, ᒥᓇ ᒋᐸᔦᑲᑲᒥᐠ ᓂᐦᐱ ᑲᒥᓂᑲᐧᑌᐠ ᐁᑲᐧ ᐊᓄᑭᐃᐧ ᒪᒋᒋᑫᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᒋᒥᓇᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐃᐧ ᑕᔑᑫᐃᐧᓇᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᓇ ᓂᑕᓄᑲᑕᒥᐣ ᑲᐧᔭᐠ ᐅᓇᑯᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᒋᐅᓇᑌᐠ ᐅᐁᐧ ᑲᐊᐧᓂᐦᐃᔭᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᒥᓇ ᑲᑭᓂᓴᐦᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐃᐧ ᐃᑫᐧᐊᐧᐠ, ᐃᑫᐧᓭᓴᐠ ᒥᓇ ᑲᐃᐧᒋᐃᐧᑐᐊᐧᐨ ᐃᑫᐧᐊᐧᐠ+ ᐊᐃᐧᔭᐠ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᒋᐊᓄᑭᑐᔭᐠ ᔪᓇᐦᐃᑎᐟ ᓀᐦᐃᔑᐣᐢ ᑭᐦᒋᐃᐧᑕᒪᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᑫᐃᔑᑲᓇᐊᐧᐸᒋᑲᑌᐠ ᐅᐁᐧ ᑲᐃᔑᓂᐦᓯᑕᐃᐧᓂᑲᑌᐠ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐃᐧ ᑭᐦᒋᐅᓇᒋᑫᐃᐧᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᓄᑯᑦ, ᑲᓀᐣᑎᔭᐣᐢ ᐊᐃᐧᔭᐠ ᐅᑲᑭᐡᑲᓇᐊᐧ ᒥᐢᑯᐅᓴᐃᐧ ᐱᑕᐁᐧᐡᑭᑲᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒋᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᐁᐧᐊᐧᐨ ᑲᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐊᐧᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᔕᐠ ᐁᑲ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᐱᑭᐁᐧᐊᐧᐨ – ᒥᓇ ᒋᑭᑌᓂᒪᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐢᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑎᐡᑯᓂᐠ ᑌᐯᐤ ᑲᑭᐃᓇᒋᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᒥᐡᑯᐨ ᑲᑭᓇ ᑲᓀᐣᑎᔭᐣᐢ ᑫᐃᐧᓇᐊᐧ ᒋᐊᓄᑲᑕᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᐁᐧ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ.” ᐊᐊᐧᔑᒣ ᐃᐧᑭᑫᐣᑕᒪᐣ: 24 ᑕᓴᐊᐧᑲᓭ ᐊᔭᑲᐧᒥᓯᐃᐧ ᐊᔭᒥᐦᐃᑐᐃᐧᐣ ᐸᑭᑎᓂᑲᑌ ᐅᒪ National Indian Residential School Crisis Line , ᒥᓇ ᒪᒋᑭᑐᐃᐧᓂᐠ 1-866-925-4419, ᐁᒥᓇᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᐁᐧᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᐅᑫᐧᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐢᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐊᐃᐧᔭᐠ ᒥᓇ ᐅᑎᐯᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᓂᐊᐧᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᓇ ᐁᐃᐧᑕᒪᑫᒪᑲᐠ ᑯᑕᑭᔭᐣ ᒪᐡᑭᑭᐃᐧ ᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᐁᐧᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᑲᓇᑕ ᐅᑭᒪᐃᐧᐣ ᑲᐸᑭᑎᓇᑭᐣ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᐸᑯᓭᓂᒧᐃᐧᐣ ᐅᐁᐧ ᒥᓄᔭᐃᐧᐣ ᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᐁᐧᐃᐧᐣ ᓀᐃᐧᐨ ᐅᑕᐱᓂᑲᑌ, ᐁᑲ ᐅᐁᐧ ᑲᑎᐸᐦᐃᑲᑌᐠ ᒪᒋᑭᑐᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᐱᐊᐧᐱᑯᐠ ᑲᐅᒋᐊᔭᒥᓇᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᒋᐅᒋᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᔭᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᑲᐊᓂᒥᓭᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑫᐧᓂᐊᐧᐠ ᑲᑭᓇ ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᐠ ᐅᒪ ᑲᓇᑕ ᐊᐦᑭᐠ. ᒪᒪᐤ ᒪᒋᑭᑐᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᐱᐊᐧᐱᑯᐠ ᐊᔭᒥᐦᐃᑐᐃᐧᓇᐣ 24/7 ᐸᑭᑎᓂᑲᑌᐊᐧᐣ ᐁᐧᒥᑎᑯᔑᒧᐃᐧᓂᐠ ᒥᓇ ᐸᑲᐤᔑᒧᐃᐧᓂᐠ. ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᓇ ᒪᒋᑭᑐᐃᐧᐣ ᐃᐧᒋᐦᐃᐁᐧᐃᐧᐣ ᐊᔭᐊᐧᓄᐣ ᑭᐡᐱᐣ ᐃᓂᓂᒧᐃᐧᐣ, ᐊᓂᔑᓇᐯᒧᐃᐧᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᐃᓄᐠᑎᐟᑐᐟ ᐃᔑᑭᔑᐁᐧᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᓇᑐᑕᒪᓂᐣ. ᑲᑭᐃᐡᑯᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑕᔭᒥᐦᐃᐁᐧᐠ ᐊᔭᐊᐧᐠ ᒋᐊᔭᒥᐦᐊᑲᓄᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᒪ 1‑855‑242‑3310 ᓇᐣᑕ ᐱᐊᐧᐱᑯᐠ hopeforwellness.ca .39:Tce7,“Nogom wedi e-kijigik Tebwendjageh mamowi kwek ijatcagewin kijigan mamowi Misko-ozawa abagiyan kijigan ka ijinkadek, kiga mokowendjigemin kagi swabwikidimowatc Canada Mehkodowkoneh kinamageh migwamik mekodekone oga kinamage migwam. Kakina abinodjicik agwa wikat kagi pigiwenaganiwatc, acitc kiga widjigabwi-kidowanan ododem-wan ka miwodondjin weni. Ocimec apita minigik awik e-madizitc, ocimec 150,000 Anishnabek First Nations, Tokluk Inuit mamowi Apitwisik, Metis abinodjicik ki pikiwonagini-ok ododemwan mamowi, kidja madjinjowaganitc mekodekone kidja kakina-mowadjin, residential school. Ogimanodagin odinakonagewin kidja kasibiwadjin Anishnaben odicgegewin, otebwetimowin mamowi kakina e-ija madisitc. Federal ogimaetcnodagin kagi kijendik weni kidja inakonigetc, Canada obamiwodon weni nogom minigik kagi nekadjiwadjin anishnaben. Ocimec 6,600 minigik ticiwok kagi pi-nigangabwitc kidja tibadjimotc adi ka ijiwebziwatc, kidja tibadidik minigik misowatc kiabitc nogom e-ija wisgendik anishnabe, ozam kinesh Canada ki abinabi win dic odictcigewin. Kakina e-ija kendik anishnabe otebwetimowin ogi abidjiton kidja nodimandjin Canada ogimanodagin-nin, kidja mokowindjin acitc kidja wabidik adi ka ijitcigetc. Kawin eta kidja mokowendjigewik kimisnamowasi nan anishnabek Kimisnamowanan kegon kidja ijitcige-ik Kida nagon mikan adi ke-ijidabitc weni odimtawini Ogimanodagin mamowi anishnabe ijitchigeh kidowin ndemonanon 94 odja. e-mamowi widjigabwikidowa-ik First Nations Anishnabek, Inuit Tokluk mamowi Metis Apitwisik, ogimanodagin odimta kidja kwek ijitcigetc nogom mickikini-migwamik mamowi kinamage-migwamik, kidja kicka kopi-odik anishnabe ijigejewini mamowi e-ija madizindjin, kidja ojitok tecigotc kidja minowacin nik kewin anishnabe onibim kakina mamowi 0-migwan-nin. Niga nigansidonanan kagi ndendagok kidja nigancimagani-atc ikwe-ok mamowi ikwesisik kagi nisagani-atc, mamowi 2SLGBTQI+ pemadisidjik, mamowi kidja abikik onakonige misinigin United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act . Nogom e-kijigik Canada oga piskan abigan kidja nagonik acitc kidja kendik ka ijitcigetc anishnaben kagi kagwe kasibiwandjin kakina e-ija madzindjin acitc agwa wikat kagi pigiwanawadjin, kidja atowik ki-tebendjigewin nan odja anishnabek kagi tibadjimowatc weni kagi iji-ebinik, kakina dic Canada kidja odapinik weni widokasowin-ni odja ka ikidomgik poonenindig.” Kiyabitc winda kendamin: Iyo 24 endasotibahiganeg ayangwamíwin ashidj kichi sóngenindam Kánádáng Abiwadj Kikinámádinán Anawenindam Madwesidjigan , 1-866-925-4419, mígiwen anawenindámowin tánginigen inanokíwinan ondji Ká-Sanagizidjig ashidj ódodemowán ashidj wíndamágemagad ánín kidji ayán kodagan pimádjiwowin wenzikág Kichi Ogima Kánádáng. Wendak (Hope for Wellness Helpline) kamingon teshgotc kidja widokagowin ishpan anamazin, anamendamin, agwendak anishnabek odja oma Canada ka tanaziyatc, medeshjagana kak mamowi kozabadjagana kak. Tapshkotc madeshjagana kak mamowi kozabajagana kak cehsin 24/7 acitc odja awik ka aganeshamotc koni ka amtcagoshimotc, Agineshamo acitc Amtcigojimo ka ijagijetc. Madesjagana kak acitc tagon odja Cree, Ojibway mamowi Inuktut ka ijagijewatc, gweden. Tehyok oma keh widokak, ka inikiyatc wehni, oma kiga ija mokowehmak 1-855-242-3310 koni hopeforwellness.ca .3a:T4a3,The US-led coalition first entered Iraq in 2014 to conduct air strikes and train local forces against Islamic State fighters who had seized territory across the north and west that year. British and American troops stayed on after Iraqi forces retook the last Islamic State-held city in 2017, shifting to advisory roles and joint operations under the name Operation Inherent Resolve to keep the group from regaining ground.

On September 30 2026 the final contingent of about 100 British personnel left the airbase at Irbil in the Kurdistan region, departing on the same day as the last US troops. The exit followed a bilateral agreement signed with the Iraqi government two years earlier that set an end-of-month deadline for the complete withdrawal of coalition combat and training forces.

Iraqi security forces and Kurdish Peshmerga units now hold sole responsibility for countering the several hundred Islamic State fighters assessed by the United Nations as capable only of small-scale attacks. The Iraqi government declared four national Sovereignty Days to mark the end of the foreign military mission and stated that all weapons inside the country must come under state control.3b:T1b5d,Good evening, everyone, thank you for being here. I am very pleased indeed to be here in Prague and to meet again with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, my friend Andrej Babiš, whom I thank for the invitation, for the welcome extended to myself and the delegation and, above all, for the discussions we have had and will continue to have after this press conference. It is safe to say that, over these years, Italy and the Czech Republic have been closer than ever, with our relationship now in a position to be able to fully express its development potential. This is thanks to the complementarity of our production systems, as is also reflected in the growth in trade between us; it is thanks to our views being aligned on many issues, especially at the European level, as we have seen over recent years with Prime Minister Babiš; it is also thanks to our being on the same wavelength on a personal level, and I have a great deal of respect for the courage, clarity and pragmatism with which the Prime Minister carries out his work and commitment. All these areas of alignment have today led to what you saw at the start of this press conference: the exchange of the 2026-2030 Plan of Action we have adopted and which I consider a real road map that will accompany our partnership over the coming months and years, playing a crucial role not only in revitalising our mutual investments but also, and perhaps above all, in creating new opportunities for our citizens and businesses and strengthening the ties between our peoples, as we have decided to also launch the Year of Italian-Czech Culture 2027/28. In the Plan, we have identified a number of areas of common interest in which we intend to work with particular determination. One of these, of course, is energy. As nations and as leaders, we are both committed to diversifying our supply sources and to strengthening, creating a sustainable energy mix for our systems. In my view, this offers us an opportunity to make the most of the complementarity of our production systems and also become technological and industrial partners, starting with the area of next-generation nuclear power, which has brought us particularly close over recent weeks. Prague is investing in the development of small modular reactors and Italy has just resumed the path it had halted several decades ago. I believe we can work very well together in this sector. The same is true for defence, a sector in which we can build long-term industrial partnerships, develop shorter, more secure and more resilient supply chains and create significant, positive knock-on effects for jobs, innovation and our systems’ competitiveness. There is also the matter of infrastructure, which is another area in which we can very effectively combine our expertise with our nations’ needs. That is as far as our bilateral relations are concerned. Then there is the much broader spectrum regarding the EU agenda and the responsibilities we have as leaders. We of course discussed the issues that will also be dealt with at the next European Council meeting and the various engagements we are organising in preparation for and on the sidelines of that meeting. The first point we addressed and are continuing to address – battles we have fought together on various occasions – regards competitiveness. We are both determined to avert what is the real risk of Europe no longer being able to produce, invest and have an impact on global markets. Moreover, the conflict in Iran, the closure of Hormuz, the instability in the Red Sea and the impact all these crises together are having on our systems and our societies are only worsening what was already a critical situation, forcing us to act and to act immediately. This is why, among other things, we have worked with Prime Minister Babiš on a set of shared proposals (I shan’t go into the technical details) – so an Italy-Czech Republic proposal – to serve as food for thought during the debate at the next European Council meeting, with particular regard to the issue of the ETS. We have spoken about this many times before and, on several occasions, we have denounced how the carbon taxation system’s current mechanisms create imbalances and end up artificially inflating prices. We have therefore put down in writing a number of proposals which we believe can effectively address this issue, calling in particular for: protection for sectors that are most exposed to international competition, by taking action on ETS allowance allocation mechanisms; limits on how carbon costs are passed on to electricity prices; greater transparency and monitoring of the ETS allowance market; a postponement of ETS 2’s entry into force, as this also risks negatively impacting a system that, at present, above all needs freeing up instead. These are concrete, implementable and common-sense proposals which we intend to bring to the next European Council meeting, sharing them with our other colleagues in the hope that we can build broad consensus. The EU budget clearly also deserves a mention, which is another of those debates where Prime Minister Babiš and I share an important convergence of views, with regard to defending the funding of traditional policies – the Common Agricultural Policy and Cohesion Funds – and the need not to consider these forms of funding for our more traditional supply chains as alternatives to the issue of competitiveness. We cannot be competitive if regions move at different speeds, and we cannot be competitive if we create problems in sectors where we are actually still competitive, with agriculture certainly being one of them. We will therefore not accept cuts to these budget items and we believe cuts can instead be made to others, such as running expenses, which have grown considerably in recent years. We spoke about migration management – another issue on which we have found ourselves in agreement. Prime Minister Babiš participates in the working group that meets before each European Council to discuss innovative solutions regarding the fight against mass illegal immigration, and we have often appreciated his pragmatism and his views. During our dinner, we will of course be discussing in even greater depth the many international crises we are immersed in, from the war in Ukraine to the difficulties in the Middle East, and we continue to believe that Europe can and must play a more defined, more active and more of a key role in these crises. So, a very wide-ranging and in-depth discussion, reflecting the solidity of our relationship and the many results we have managed to build together over these years, which, however, are still far from the results we can build together over the years to come. Thank you, Prime Minister. [ Courtesy translation ] Lingua Inglese Tipologia Pagina: Intervento Immagine in Evidenza: Codice video Youtube: tA4j5NDzgQ4 President Meloni visits the Czech Republic Tipologia intervento: Intervento Sottotitoli in inglese: Italiano3c:T2a01,Opening remarks by Deputy Minister in The Presidency, Nonceba Mhlauli, on the release of the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention (PYEI) Q1 2026/27 Quarterly Progress Report Newsroom Date Wednesday, 30 September 2026 - 14:00 shaunm Wed, 09/30/2026 - 12:13 Image Body Programme Director, Members of the media, Partners across the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention, Colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. It is a pleasure to welcome you to the release of the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention Quarterly Progress Report for the first quarter of the 2026/27 financial year, covering the period April to June 2026. Today’s report provides an account of the progress being made in responding to one of the most pressing challenges facing our country: youth unemployment and the difficulty many young South Africans face in moving from education and training into meaningful economic participation. We understand that completing school, obtaining a qualification or acquiring skills does not automatically translate into access to the labour market. Many young people still need opportunities to gain experience, earn an income, develop skills, establish enterprises, or take their first steps into the world of work. It is in response to this challenge that the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention was launched in 2020. The PYEI is a comprehensive, multi-stakeholder intervention designed to accelerate the transition of young people from learning to earning. It brings together Government departments, public entities, the private sector, civil society, and other partners to address the barriers young people face in accessing economic opportunities. At the centre of this approach is the National Pathway Management Network, which connects young people to different opportunities and forms of support through a national network. Understanding "Earning Opportunities” Before I turn to the progress made during the quarter, I want to clarify an important point about the terminology used in this report. When we refer to “earning opportunities,” we are referring to a range of opportunities that enable young people to earn income, gain workplace experience, participate in work-integrated learning or provide paid services. These include work-based placements, work-integrated learning, and paid-service opportunities, among others. Therefore, when we report that more than 2.6 million temporary earning opportunities have been accessed since the inception of the PYEI, we are not claiming that 2.6 million permanent jobs have been created. We are reporting opportunities through which young people have been supported to participate economically, gain experience and move along a pathway towards sustainable earning. This distinction is important. For a young person who has never had the opportunity to enter a workplace, gain practical experience or earn an income, such an opportunity can provide an important bridge into further economic participation. At the same time, we recognise that temporary opportunities alone cannot resolve South Africa’s youth unemployment challenge. This is why the PYEI also focuses on systems change, demand-led skills development, enterprise development, sustainable earning pathways and connecting young people to opportunities through a national network. Progress during the first quarter Turning to the first quarter of the 2026/27 financial year, the PYEI recorded 139 693 earning opportunities secured by young people through the National Pathway Management Network. Of these, 106 093 opportunities were secured through SA Youth, while a further 33 600 earning and learning opportunities were secured through ESSA. Let me briefly explain these platforms, because they are central to how young people access opportunities through the PYEI. SA Youth is the platform through which young people can register, access information, and connect to services and opportunities within the National Pathway Management Network. During the quarter, SA Youth surpassed 6 million registered young people. Since the inception of the PYEI, more than 2.6 million earning opportunities have been secured through SA Youth. Importantly, close to 70% of opportunities have been accessed by young women, demonstrating the network’s contribution towards addressing gender disparities in access to economic opportunities. The second platform is the Employment Services of South Africa system, or ESSA. ESSA forms part of the employment services infrastructure through which young people can register and access employment-related services and opportunities. By the end of the quarter, close to 5.7 million young people were registered on ESSA, with 386 733 opportunities secured through the system since inception. During the first quarter alone, ESSA recorded 33 600 earning and learning opportunities. Workplace experience through YES Another important area of progress is workplace experience. The Youth Employment Service, or YES, is a private-sector-led initiative that provides young people with workplace experience opportunities across various sectors of the economy. During the first quarter, YES placed 5 244 young people into workplace experience opportunities. Since the inception of the PYEI, 233 393 workplace experience opportunities have been delivered, with 72% through YES and 28% through the Department of Higher Education and Training Sector Education and Training Authorities. Workplace experience is important because qualifications alone do not always provide young people with the practical experience required to enter the labour market. The PYEI therefore places emphasis on creating pathways that allow young people to apply what they have learnt and develop practical workplace skills. National Youth Service We also made progress through the Revitalised National Youth Service. During the quarter, a further 2 866 young people were recruited into Phase 5 of the programme. This is the largest phase of the Revitalised National Youth Service to date and is recruiting 100 000 young people across South Africa. Since inception, the National Youth Service has provided 140 922 paid service opportunities across its five phases, with young women accounting for 68% of these opportunities. Supporting young entrepreneurs The PYEI also recognises that not every young person will enter the economy through a traditional employer-employee relationship. Enterprise development and self-employment are therefore important components of the intervention. During the first quarter, the National Youth Development Agency provided 5 214 enterprise support opportunities, consisting of 4 795 non-financial and 419 financial opportunities. Across the ecosystem, enterprise support opportunities have now reached 277 349 since inception. Investing in innovation We are also investing in new approaches to addressing the barriers young people face. The National Pathway Management Network Innovation Fund, led by the Department of Employment and Labour and administered by the Industrial Development Corporation, supports initiatives that test and scale innovative approaches to youth employment. During the quarter, R95 million was committed to the fourth Call for Proposals, with a focus on strengthening economic linkages in rural and marginalised communities, supporting sustainable earning, expanding participation by young people living with disabilities, and deepening the participation of civil society and youth-led organisations. As of 30 June 2026, the Innovation Fund portfolio had facilitated access to more than 32 000 earning opportunities, with more than 52 000 unemployed young people registered across the Fund. One example highlighted in the report is Edunova, which is creating a digital pathway into self-employment for young people in the Eastern Cape and Western Cape. By the end of the quarter, Edunova had enrolled its full cohort of 600 young people, with micro learning completions reaching 108% of the project target and retention standing at 83%. Progress against our overarching targets The progress reported today must also be considered against the broader targets of the PYEI. The intervention set a target of engaging at least 5 million young people in the National Pathway Management Network. We have now exceeded that target, with more than 6 million young people registered and accessing opportunities through the network. The second target was to support young people to access 1.5 million temporary earning opportunities. To date, young people have accessed more than 2.6 million. The third target is to engage 500 000 young people in sustainable earning opportunities through workforce development programmes. This remains a work in progress, with evaluations and tracing studies underway. This is an important measure of accountability. The impact of the PYEI cannot be assessed only by the number of young people who access an opportunity. We must also understand what happens afterwards: whether young people move into further opportunities, secure sustainable income, progress into employment or enterprise, and whether the pathways we are creating are helping young people build livelihoods. The road ahead As we enter the remainder of the 2026/27 financial year, our focus is twofold. First, we will continue to scale initiatives that are demonstrating progress and ensure that more young people can access opportunities through the PYEI. Second, we will strengthen the quality and sustainability of the pathways we create. Young people need pathways that are accessible, relevant, and connected to real opportunities in the economy. They need opportunities to gain experience, earn, develop skills, establish enterprises and progress towards sustainable livelihoods. The PYEI cannot address youth unemployment alone. The scale and complexity of the challenge requires continued cooperation between Government, business, civil society, educational institutions, and other partners. Government has a responsibility to ensure that the systems are in place to help young people navigate these opportunities and to remove unnecessary barriers wherever possible. The first quarter of 2026/27 demonstrates continued progress, while also reminding us that significant work remains ahead. As we reflect on 50 years since the 1976 Soweto Uprising, we are reminded of the role young people have played in shaping our country’s history and of our responsibility to ensure that young people are able to shape its economic future. Our ambition is a South Africa where young people can participate in the economy with greater dignity, opportunity, and agency. That is the purpose of the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention. I thank you.3d:T406,Lithuania has hosted rotating NATO troops on its soil since Russia seized Crimea from Ukraine in 2014. The country shares a 680-kilometer border with Belarus, a close Russian ally, and has spent more than two percent of its GDP on defense each year since 2016. Vilnius built new barracks, training ranges and ammunition depots to support allied forces that arrive for months at a time and then leave.

On September 30, 2026, Prime Minister Mindaugas Sinkevičius told Bloomberg that Lithuania now seeks a permanent US troop presence and is prepared to cover the costs of housing, training areas and logistics. The statement marks the first time a Lithuanian leader has publicly offered to pay for stationing American soldiers on a fixed, year-round basis rather than under the current rotation system.

The offer shifts the burden of funding from Washington to Vilnius and places the next decision on the US command structure in Europe, which must weigh the request against existing force posture across the eastern flank of NATO.3e:T67b,The Office of Refugee Resettlement at the Department of Health and Human Services requires anyone who wants to sponsor an unaccompanied alien child to submit an application that lists a valid home address and household members and to answer questions from agency staff about those details. That process has operated under federal rules since Congress assigned the agency responsibility for the custody and placement of such children in 2002.

On September 30 Romulo Hernandez Murillo, a 46-year-old man from Honduras who entered the country without authorization, and Lisa Marie Lopez Perdomo, 49, of Syracuse, Kansas, each pleaded guilty in federal court in Kansas to charges that they submitted a false sponsorship application and followed it with a false phone interview. Court records state that Hernandez Murillo paid Lopez Perdomo to prepare and file paperwork claiming he lived at her Syracuse address with her and that she posed as a household member when an HHS employee called to verify the information. A photograph of Hernandez Murillo standing in front of her house was also sent with the packet.

The two have been in federal custody since late 2025 and early 2026. Each now faces a statutory maximum of five years in prison on each count. A federal district judge will set their sentences on January 6, 2027, after reviewing the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and other factors required by statute. The case was investigated by HHS inspectors general, Homeland Security Investigations, and other federal and state agencies and prosecuted by the Justice Department’s Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section as part of Joint Task Force Alpha.3f:T542,Federal law bars non-citizens from registering to vote or casting ballots in U.S. elections. Congress wrote that prohibition into the Immigration and Nationality Act in 1952 and later added two specific criminal statutes: 18 U.S.C. § 611, which makes it a misdemeanor for an alien to vote, and 18 U.S.C. § 1015(f), which makes it a felony to falsely claim U.S. citizenship on a voter registration form or ballot application. The Department of Homeland Security’s investigative arm, Homeland Security Investigations, is the federal agency charged with locating non-citizens who appear on voter rolls.

On September 24, 2026, a federal grand jury in Minnesota returned separate indictments against ten non-citizens for violations of those two statutes. One of the defendants is accused of having voted in the state’s August primary election. All ten appeared in federal court for initial proceedings shortly after the indictments were unsealed.

The cases are now pending before a U.S. district judge. First Assistant U.S. Attorney Joseph S. Teirab is handling the prosecutions. Each defendant remains presumed innocent until the government proves the charges beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. Conviction on the felony false-claim count carries a maximum of five years in prison; the misdemeanor illegal-voting count carries up to one year.40:T414,Russian guided bombs have hit the Ukrainian border city of Sumy almost daily since the start of 2026. The strikes target the regional capital in Sumy Oblast, which lies near the frontier with Russia. They have reached more than 150 times this year alone, according to the head of the oblast military administration.

On 29 September Russian aircraft dropped guided bombs on the city in the afternoon. One bomb struck a school while classes were in session. The strikes killed a 70-year-old woman and a 74-year-old man in a residential area. They injured nine other people, three of them children. The bombs also damaged dozens of houses, educational buildings, cars and other civilian sites.

One bomb landed inside the Central City Cemetery. It broke graves, headstones and church windows there. Oleh Hryhorov, head of the Sumy Oblast Military Administration, reported the toll and the sites hit on social media. The city now faces continued strikes from the same type of weapon that has become the main threat to settlements along the border.41:T677,US banks have maintained correspondent relationships with Cuban financial institutions for decades under licenses issued by the Treasury Department that allowed limited dollar clearing for trade and family remittances. Those licenses narrowed sharply after 2017 when the Trump administration tightened the Cuba embargo through a series of executive actions that expanded the list of restricted Cuban entities and required stricter due diligence on any transaction touching the island. Successive updates kept the core prohibition on direct US dollar dealings with most Cuban state and private actors.

On September 29 2026 several US banks froze the accounts of Cuban mipymes small and medium private enterprises that had been using third-country intermediaries to receive payments from foreign clients. The action followed the latest Treasury rule issued that week which closed remaining channels for professional and people-to-people travel payments and imposed new limits on any financial transaction routed through third countries if it involved listed Cuban entities or their representatives.

The freezes halted immediate access to working capital for dozens of registered private businesses that had operated inside the limited openings created since 2021. Cuban authorities reported the accounts held payments for services already delivered and said the move cut off the last practical conduit for dollar inflows that had sustained the private sector under the embargo. The situation now turns on whether the affected mipymes can reroute all future receipts through non-dollar currencies or non-US intermediaries without triggering further blocks.42:T5ca,California's public universities tightened rules on campus protests in 2024 after large demonstrations against Israel's military campaign in Gaza. The California State University system set content-neutral time, place and manner restrictions that limit when, where and how gatherings can occur. The rules also bar violent, harassing, intimidating or discriminatory conduct on campus. State law SB 1287, passed that year, ordered CSU campuses to adopt and enforce those measures and asked the University of California to do the same.

On September 28, 2026, Governor Gavin Newsom vetoed Assembly Bill 2551. The measure would have ordered CSU to hold an open forum by the end of 2027 so students could give feedback on the restrictions. It would also have required the annual legislative reports to add data on protest-related code-of-conduct violations, the disciplinary actions taken and breakdowns of those actions by race and gender. The bill asked UC to take parallel steps. An earlier draft had tried to repeal parts of the 2024 law but dropped that language after opposition from more than 40 Jewish organizations.

The veto leaves the 2024 restrictions and reporting requirements in place without the new student-forum mandate. Newsom stated that existing channels already let campus communities share views with policy leaders, so an extra required forum was not needed. The CSU and UC systems continue to operate under the content-neutral limits set after the 2024 protests.43:T4f7,NASA has run student design contests for space hardware and operations since the early 2000s to bring fresh technical approaches into its human-spaceflight projects. The contests have focused on everything from lunar rovers to habitat concepts and have fed ideas into programs that now plan for repeated crewed landings and a permanent outpost on the Moon.

On September 29, 2026, NASA opened the 2027 Human Lander Challenge and set its topic on lunar communications. The agency invited U.S. college teams and their faculty advisers to propose systems-level fixes that improve links between landers, surface rovers, habitats, astronauts, and ground control on Earth. Teams must file a non-binding notice of intent by October 15, 2026, and deliver a five-to-seven-page proposal plus a two-minute video by March 4, 2027. Up to twelve finalist teams will each receive nine thousand dollars and present their designs at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, in June 2027. The top three teams will split an additional eighteen thousand dollars in prizes.

The contest now centers on turning those student proposals into workable hardware or software that can reach the Moon inside three to five years and support the steady expansion of crewed operations there.44:T6cb,The United States and Israel began strikes on Iran in late February 2026. The fighting settled into weekly exchanges by early March, with naval clashes in the Strait of Hormuz. A June memorandum lifted the dual blockades and opened a 60-day negotiating window that collapsed on 8 July, after which sustained US strikes resumed and the conflict narrowed to control of the strait.

On 29 September the Treasury Department sanctioned ten individuals and entities located in Iran, China, Hong Kong, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. The action used Executive Order 13382, which blocks property of proliferators of weapons of mass destruction and their delivery systems. It reached Kavoshcom Asia R and D Group for supplying electronic components to Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Company and Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group, plus its director Ali Fotowat Almady, its representative Parisa Lali, and Hong Kong-based EC Mojo Technology Co. Limited with its China-based representative Li Fen. The sanctions also hit Pakistan-based Waseem Pasha Tajammal and his Cavalier Group companies in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Turkey for acting as intermediaries that procured and distributed weapons for Iran’s Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics, and hit Seyyed Asghar Alizadeh Tabatabai for coordinating weapons and dual-use component purchases from China on the ministry’s behalf.

The sanctions form part of Operation Economic Outcast, the campaign Treasury launched in August against Iran’s illicit financial and commercial networks. The department stated it would continue to target those who provide material, technological or financial support to Iran’s military activities. The fight over the Strait of Hormuz continues.45:T5ef,Jay Brown attended a combat-sports event at the city-owned Kia Center in Orlando on August 29. The heavyweight kickboxing match pitted Israeli-American fighter Ben Azoulay against Paul Nicholas Miller, who goes by Gypsy Crusader online. An usher seized the Nazi flag Brown waved during the bout, called it hateful, said he should feel ashamed, and escorted him to a coat-check area where staff held the flag while warning that continued display would get him removed.

Brown filed an amended complaint in U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida on September 29. The suit claims the venue allowed other patrons to display large Black Lives Matter flags at the same event but suppressed his expression. It accuses the city of viewpoint discrimination under the First Amendment, which protects nearly all speech. Brown seeks compensatory and nominal damages plus an order that bars the city from restricting political expression based on its content or viewpoint.

The Kia Center’s published policies limit signs to 11 by 17 inches and ban those with indecent or derogatory comments, images, or political statements. Security may inspect items and bar anything deemed inappropriate for crowd safety. On September 2 the city and Orlando Venues issued a statement that they must follow the First Amendment and cannot deny access based on political ideology while condemning hate speech, antisemitism, and racism. The case now turns on whether the city-owned venue applied its rules in a content-neutral way.46:T482,NASA has rotated crews on the International Space Station since 2000 through a series of expeditions that last about six months each. SpaceX began flying NASA astronauts to the station in 2020 under a contract that calls for the company to launch four-person crews on its Dragon capsule from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida.

On September 29 NASA announced that its next crew, designated Crew-13, will lift off at 11:10 a.m. Eastern on October 1 from Space Launch Complex 40. The Dragon spacecraft carries NASA astronauts Jessica Watkins and Luke Delaney, Canadian Space Agency astronaut Joshua Kutryk, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergey Teteryatnikov. It is scheduled to dock at the forward port of the station’s Harmony module about seven hours and 50 minutes later, at roughly 7 p.m.

That transit time would be the shortest from launch to docking by any U.S. spacecraft in station history. After arrival the new crew will conduct a brief handover with the Crew-12 astronauts already aboard. Crew-12 is set to depart no earlier than October 5. The station crew count will remain at eleven during the overlap until the handover is complete.47:T1cb9,Buonasera a tutti, grazie di essere qui. Sono molto, molto contenta di essere a Praga, di ritrovare qui il Primo Ministro Andrej Babiš, il mio amico Andrej Babiš, che ringrazio per l'invito, per l'accoglienza riservata a me, alla delegazione, e soprattutto per il confronto che abbiamo avuto e continueremo ad avere dopo questa conferenza stampa. Possiamo dire, senza timore di smentita, che in questi anni Italia e Repubblica Ceca sono state più vicine che mai, che le nostre relazioni sono nella condizione ora di poter esprimere il loro massimo potenziale di sviluppo, grazie alla complementarità dei nostri sistemi produttivi, che è testimoniata anche dalla crescita dell'interscambio, grazie alla convergenza di vedute su molti dossier, soprattutto di livello europeo, che in questi anni abbiamo potuto constatare con il Primo Ministro Babiš. E grazie anche a una sintonia che è anche personale, io ho grande rispetto per il coraggio, per la chiarezza e per il pragmatismo con il quale il Primo Ministro conduce la sua attività e il suo impegno. Da tutta questa sintonia nasce oggi quello che voi avete visto all'inizio di questo momento, e cioè lo scambio del Piano d'Azione 2026-2030 che abbiamo adottato e che io considero una vera e propria roadmap che accompagnerà il nostro partenariato nei prossimi mesi, nei prossimi anni, che sarà decisiva per rilanciare i nostri investimenti reciproci, ma anche forse soprattutto per creare nuove opportunità per le nostre imprese, per i nostri cittadini e per rafforzare i legami tra i nostri popoli, perché, per l'appunto abbiamo deciso anche di lanciare l'Anno della Cultura Italia-Repubblica Ceca 2027-2028. Nel Piano noi abbiamo individuato alcuni ambiti di interesse comune, ambiti sui quali intendiamo lavorare con particolare determinazione. Uno di questi non può che essere l'energia. Siamo entrambi - come Nazioni e come leader - impegnati a diversificare le fonti di approvvigionamento, a rafforzare, a creare un sostenibile mix energetico per i nostri sistemi. Questo ci offre a mio avviso una opportunità che è quella di sfruttare la complementarità tra i nostri sistemi produttivi, diventare partner anche tecnologici e industriali, a partire da uno scenario che ci accomuna particolarmente nelle ultime settimane, che è quello del nucleare di nuova generazione. Praga investe sullo sviluppo dei piccoli reattori modulari, l'Italia ha appena ripreso il cammino che aveva interrotto diversi decenni fa. Penso che questo sia un ambito sul quale insieme possiamo lavorare molto bene. Stessa cosa vale per la difesa, settore nel quale possiamo costruire partnership industriali di lungo periodo, costruire filiere che siano più corte, più sicure, più resilienti, generare ricadute importanti sull'occupazione, sulla innovazione, sulla competitività dei nostri sistemi. C'è il tema delle infrastrutture, altro ambito sul quale possiamo mescolare in modo molto efficace l'expertise con le necessità delle nostre Nazioni. E questo per quello che riguarda i nostri rapporti bilaterali. Poi c'è un mondo molto esteso in quello che riguarda l'agenda europea e le responsabilità che come leader abbiamo. Abbiamo parlato ovviamente delle materie che saranno oggetto anche del prossimo Consiglio europeo, dei diversi appuntamenti che stiamo organizzando in preparazione e a margine del Vertice. Il primo punto che abbiamo affrontato, e che affrontiamo, perché sono battaglie che abbiamo condotto varie volte insieme, è quello della competitività. Siamo entrambi determinati a scongiurare il rischio concreto che l’Europa non sia più in grado di produrre, di investire, di incidere sui mercati globali. E il conflitto in Iran, la chiusura di Hormuz, l'instabilità nel mar Rosso, l'impatto che queste crisi tutte insieme stanno avendo nei nostri sistemi, nelle nostre società, non fanno altro che aggravare un quadro che era già critico e questo ci impone di agire, di farlo immediatamente. È la ragione per la quale, senza entrare in temi che sono troppo tecnici, però tra le altre cose con il Primo Ministro Babiš abbiamo lavorato a un pacchetto di proposte comuni, quindi a una proposta Italia-Repubblica Ceca da portare come spunto per il dibattito al prossimo Consiglio europeo, in particolare sul tema ETS. Ne abbiamo parlato in tante occasioni, in tante occasioni abbiamo denunciato come gli attuali meccanismi del sistema di tassazione del carbonio creino squilibri e finiscano per gonfiare artificialmente i prezzi. Abbiamo quindi messo nero su bianco alcune proposte che crediamo possano affrontare efficacemente questo tema, chiedendo in particolare di proteggere i settori più esposti alla concorrenza internazionale, intervenendo sui meccanismi di distribuzione delle quote ETS, limitare la trasmissione dei costi di carbonio ai prezzi dell'elettricità, rafforzare la trasparenza e il monitoraggio del mercato delle quote ETS, rinviare l'entrata in vigore di ETS 2 che rischia anch'esso di impattare in modo negativo su un sistema che invece oggi ha bisogno soprattutto di essere liberato. Sono proposte concrete, sono proposte attuabili, sono proposte di buonsenso, che intendiamo portare al prossimo Consiglio europeo, condividerle con gli altri colleghi sperando di poter costruire delle convergenze ampie. Chiaramente un cenno lo merita il Bilancio europeo perché è un altro di quei dibattiti sui quali col Primo Ministro Babiš abbiamo una importante convergenza di vedute. Sulla difesa del finanziamento delle politiche tradizionali, Politica agricola e Fondi di coesione su tutto, e la necessità di non considerare queste forme di finanziamento alle nostre filiere più tradizionali come alternative al tema della competitività. Perché non ci può essere competitività se i territori non corrono alla stessa velocità, non ci può essere competitività se noi creiamo problemi a quello su cui in effetti ancora competitivi siamo. E l'agricoltura è sicuramente uno di quei settori. Quindi non accetteremo che si tagli su questi capitoli e riteniamo che si possa tagliare su altri capitoli come le spese di funzionamento, che negli ultimi anni sono cresciute parecchio. Abbiamo parlato di governo dei flussi migratori, altra materia sulla quale ci siamo trovati d'accordo. Il Primo Ministro Babiš partecipa al gruppo di lavoro che si riunisce prima dei Consigli europei sulle soluzioni innovative sulla lotta all'immigrazione illegale di massa, e abbiamo spesso apprezzato il suo pragmatismo e i suoi punti di vista. Ovviamente affronteremo durante la cena anche in maniera più approfondita le tante crisi internazionali nelle quali siamo immersi, dalla guerra in Ucraina fino alle difficoltà in Medio Oriente, e continuiamo a ritenere che l'Europa possa e debba avere un ruolo più profilato, più attivo e più protagonista in queste crisi. Quindi un confronto molto ampio, approfondito, che rispecchia la solidità dei nostri rapporti e i tanti risultati che siamo riusciti a costruire insieme in questi anni, che però sono ancora distanti dai risultati che possiamo costruire insieme nei prossimi. Grazie, Primo Ministro. Lingua Italiano Tipologia Pagina: Intervento Immagine in Evidenza: Codice video Youtube: tA4j5NDzgQ4 Il Presidente Meloni in visita nella Repubblica Ceca Tipologia intervento: Intervento Sottotitoli in inglese:48:T4e1,Ukraine and Russia have fought a full-scale war since February 2022, when Russian forces invaded on multiple fronts. Ukrainian troops halted the initial advance on Kyiv, then retook much of the ground lost in the east and south through 2022 and 2023. Since mid-2024 both sides have traded long-range strikes deep behind the front lines, with Ukraine hitting Russian oil refineries, air bases and logistics hubs using newly developed drones and missiles while Russia has struck Ukrainian energy plants and cities.

On 29 September 2026 Zelenskyy met with the defence ministry and senior commanders and signed off on the list of long-range targets set for October. He said the military had briefed him on near-term priorities and that existing strikes continue to affect Russian oil facilities. The same evening he posted the approval on X and repeated the point in his daily address.

The decision keeps Ukrainian long-range operations on the same course they have followed for the past year, with the next month’s strikes now formally locked in and the oil sector remaining under pressure. The war now turns on whether those approved strikes reach their assigned targets before Russian air defences and retaliatory fire can shut the campaign down.49:T467,South Africa has recorded high rates of killings and assaults on women for years. Police data from the past decade show thousands of women murdered each year, with many cases involving intimate partners or family members. The government has run awareness campaigns and passed laws that set minimum sentences for rape and domestic violence, yet conviction rates have stayed low and repeat offenders have continued to appear in court records.

On September 29 2026 President Cyril Ramaphosa called the violence inhuman. He said each death leaves behind a daughter, mother, sister or friend whose life had value. He announced that a specialised multidisciplinary investigation unit focused on killings of women has now been moved to the national level so that it can coordinate across provinces and agencies.

The unit now operates with central authority to gather evidence, track patterns and support prosecutions in cases that cross local boundaries. Its work sits inside the existing criminal justice system and turns on whether faster national coordination produces higher rates of arrests and convictions in the months ahead.4a:T46b,Germany's major North Sea port at Bremerhaven has operated for decades as the country's primary hub for commercial shipping and occasional military logistics under NATO agreements that date back to the alliance's founding in 1949. The facility sits inside a broader network of civilian infrastructure that European members have maintained while defense budgets remained limited after the end of the Cold War.

On September 29 2026 the federal government announced upgrades to Bremerhaven port and to Bremen's nearby airport that will add dedicated capacity for rapid movement of troops equipment and supplies in the event of an Article 5 invocation requiring collective defense of any NATO member. The work will create hardened loading zones expanded rail links and fuel storage sized for alliance-scale operations.

The changes now position Bremerhaven as one of several continental entry points being hardened against potential supply disruption while European governments increase overall military readiness. The port's new configuration turns on completion timelines and integration tests with existing NATO command structures.0:{"P":null,"b":"Qf_MC-TFsZ15-Oy8aEDyA","p":"","c":["",""],"i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]},"$undefined","$undefined",true],["",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/css/dbb3b7f94c4b5f6b.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","data-theme":"dark","children":[["$","head",null,{"children":[["$","link",null,{"rel":"preconnect","href":"https://fonts.bunny.net"}],["$","link",null,{"href":"https://fonts.bunny.net/css?family=source-serif-4:400,400i,600,700|inter:500,600,700","rel":"stylesheet"}],["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"(function(){try{var t=localStorage.getItem('pigeon-theme');if(t){document.documentElement.setAttribute('data-theme',t);}}catch(e){}})();"}}],["$","script",null,{"dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"(function(){try{var d=document.documentElement;if(localStorage.getItem('pigeon.profile.lastVisit')||localStorage.getItem('pigeon.profile.seen')){d.setAttribute('data-personalizing','1');setTimeout(function(){d.removeAttribute('data-personalizing');},1200);}}catch(e){}})();"}}]]}],["$","body",null,{"children":[["$","a",null,{"className":"skip-link","href":"#main","children":"Skip to the news"}],["$","div",null,{"className":"shell","children":[["$","header",null,{"className":"paper-head","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"flag","children":[["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/","className":"flag-lockup","aria-label":"Pigeon News — home","children":[["$","svg",null,{"className":"flag-mark","viewBox":"0 0 588 659","aria-hidden":"true","focusable":"false","children":["$","use",null,{"href":"/icons/flag-mark.svg#mark"}]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"flag-name","children":"Pigeon News"}]]}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/profile","className":"profile-btn flag-profile","aria-label":"Your profile and account","children":[["$","svg",null,{"viewBox":"0 0 24 24","width":"16","height":"16","aria-hidden":"true","focusable":"false","children":[["$","circle",null,{"cx":"12","cy":"8","r":"4","fill":"currentColor"}],["$","path",null,{"d":"M4 20c0-4.4 3.6-7 8-7s8 2.6 8 7","fill":"none","stroke":"currentColor","strokeWidth":"2","strokeLinecap":"round"}]]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"profile-btn-label","children":"Profile"}]]}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"dateline","children":[["$","span",null,{"className":"dl-left","children":["VOL. I — NO. ",101]}],["$","span",null,{"className":"dl-mid","children":"FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2026"}],["$","span",null,{"className":"dl-right","children":"SILENCE THE NOISE, TUNE IN TO THE FACTS"}]]}],["$","$L3",null,{}]]}],["$","main",null,{"id":"main","className":"page-main","children":["$","$L4",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L5",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[[["$","div",null,{"className":"section-kicker section-kicker--page","children":"Not here"}],["$","div",null,{"className":"nf","children":[["$","p",null,{"children":"This story has left the paper."}],["$","p",null,{"children":"Pigeon keeps a story for about two weeks. After that its page comes down, so an old link or an old bookmark will land here."}],["$","p",null,{"children":"The news itself is still where it always is:"}],["$","div",null,{"className":"nf-links","children":[["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/","children":"Today"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/search/","children":"Search"}],["$","$L2",null,{"href":"/corrections/","children":"Corrections"}]]}]]}]],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"footer","children":["Pigeon News",["$","br",null,{}],["$","a",null,{"className":"footer-link","href":"/about/","children":"About"}]," · ",["$","a",null,{"className":"footer-link","href":"/corrections/","children":"Corrections"}]," · ",["$","a",null,{"className":"footer-link","href":"/terms/","children":"Terms"}]," · ",["$","a",null,{"className":"footer-link","href":"/privacy/","children":"Privacy"}]," · ",["$","a",null,{"className":"footer-link","href":"/refund/","children":"Refunds"}],["$","br",null,{}],"© ",2026," Ingenius LLC. All rights reserved."]}]]}],["$","$L6",null,{}],["$","$L7",null,{}],["$","$L8",null,{}],["$","$L9",null,{}]]}]]}]]}],{"children":["__PAGE__",["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","$La",null,{}],null,["$","$Lb",null,{"items":[{"id":"514b3bc2bf3d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-10T08:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WOLFSBURG","what":"Regionales Dialogforum Nord (Wolfsburg) der Enquete-Kommission Corona","headline":"Regional Dialogue Forum North (Wolfsburg) of the Parliamentary Corona Inquiry Commission","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Die Enquete-Kommission wird im Herbst 2026 vier regionale Dialogforen mit Bürgerinnen und Bürgern durchführen.","quote":"Der Umgang mit der Corona-Pandemie hat Gräben zwischen den Menschen gerissen. Die Dialogforen leisten einen Beitrag zum Brückenbauen. Ich freue mich, dass wir jetzt in Wolfsburg damit beginnen","quote_en":"The way the Corona pandemic was handled has torn rifts between people. The dialogue forums make a contribution to bridge-building. I am pleased that we are now beginning this in Wolfsburg.","context":"Die Enquete-Kommission wird im Herbst 2026 vier regionale Dialogforen mit Bürgerinnen und Bürgern durchführen. Ziel ist es, unterschiedliche Perspektiven, Erfahrungen und Bewertungen zur Corona-Pandemie sichtbar zu machen und in die Arbeit der Kommission einfließen zu lassen. Auf diese Weise soll dazu beigetragen werden, Deutschland auf künftige Krisen besser vorzubereiten. „Der Umgang mit der Corona-Pandemie hat Gräben zwischen den Menschen gerissen. Die Dialogforen leisten einen Beitrag zum Brückenbauen. Ich freue mich, dass wir jetzt in Wolfsburg damit beginnen“, sagt Michael Hose, Mitglied des Deutschen Bundestages und Vorsitzender der Enquete-Kommission. „An vier Terminen werden 600 Bürgerinnen und Bürger Gelegenheit haben, sich zu ihren Erfahrungen während der Pandemie auszutauschen. Mit der Perspektive der Menschen und ihren Empfehlungen werden wir entscheidende Impulse für unsere weitere Arbeit als Kommission erhalten.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on Corona will hold four regional dialogue forums with citizens in autumn 2026. The goal is to make different perspectives, experiences and assessments of the Corona pandemic visible and feed them into the commission's work. In this way a contribution is to be made to better preparing Germany for future crises.","context_en":"The Parliamentary Inquiry Commission on Corona will hold four regional dialogue forums with citizens in autumn 2026. The goal is to make different perspectives, experiences and assessments of the Corona pandemic visible and feed them into the commission's work. In this way a contribution is to be made to better preparing Germany for future crises.","lang":"de","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Deutscher Bundestag","url":"https://www.bundestag.de/dokumente/textarchiv/2026/kw41-pa-enquete-dialogforum-1218010","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fd277c3d84d0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-08T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"U.S. Treasury auctions 29-Year 10-Month Bond","headline":"U.S. Treasury auctioned a 29-year 10-month bond that settled on October 8, 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Treasury auction settled 2026-10-08.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Treasury auction settled 2026-10-08. Demand for U.S. debt is a money-flow indicator.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Treasury","url":"https://www.treasurydirect.gov/auctions/auction-query/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ed9c6a7620d7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-05T08:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BERLIN","what":"Anhörung der Präsidenten der Nachrichtendienste des Bundes","headline":"Parliamentary committee to question heads of federal intelligence agencies","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Das Parlamentarische Kontrollgremium befragt am Montag, 5.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$c","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Parliamentary Control Committee will question the presidents of Germany's federal intelligence services in a three-hour public hearing on Monday, 5 October 2026. Those summoned are Martin Jäger, president of the BND, Sinan Selen, president of the BfV, and Martina Rosenberg, president of the MAD. The hearing begins at 10 a.m. in the Europa Hall 4.900 of the Paul-Löbe-Haus in Berlin and will be","context_en":"The Parliamentary Control Committee will question the presidents of Germany's federal intelligence services in a three-hour public hearing on Monday, 5 October 2026. Those summoned are Martin Jäger, president of the BND, Sinan Selen, president of the BfV, and Martina Rosenberg, president of the MAD. The hearing begins at 10 a.m. in the Europa Hall 4.900 of the Paul-Löbe-Haus in Berlin and will be","lang":"de","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Deutscher Bundestag","url":"https://www.bundestag.de/dokumente/textarchiv/2026/kw41-pa-pkgr-1211186","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9169206592d6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T08:23:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"El Al forced to cancel first rescue flights to Dubai after authorities revoke landing permissions","headline":"Israeli authorities revoked landing permission so El Al canceled its first rescue flights to Dubai in Israel","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Al stated that, as soon as official permission is granted for the rescue flights to resume, it would be implementing the planned flights to bring stranded Israelis home.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Al stated that, as soon as official permission is granted for the rescue flights to resume, it would be implementing the planned flights to bring stranded Israelis home.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910399","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fac46c2c6c87","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T08:06:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Government extends emergency reservist call-ups through November, lowers cap to 200,000","headline":"Israel government extended emergency reservist call-ups through November 30 and lowered the cap to 200,000","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ministers approved extending emergency reserve call-ups and special detention arrangements through November 30, despite a Defense Ministry legal opinion warning of serious equality concerns.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ministers approved extending emergency reserve call-ups and special detention arrangements through November 30, despite a Defense Ministry legal opinion warning of serious equality concerns.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/defense-news/article-910398","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cea850903f27","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:48:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Gaps narrow between coalition, opposition blocs as security is spotlighted in public agenda - poll","headline":"Coalition bloc gained two seats to 51 and opposition bloc lost two seats to 53 in Israel poll that highlighted security","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"According to the poll, the coalition bloc gained two seats this week, rising to 51, while the Zionist opposition bloc fell by two seats to 53.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"According to the poll, the coalition bloc gained two seats this week, rising to 51, while the Zionist opposition bloc fell by two seats to 53.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-election-2026/article-910396","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a61fb1b952c9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:07:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VORARLBERG","what":"E-Bike gegen Rennrad - Mädchen und Frau nach Fahrradkollision verletzt","headline":"E-bike vs road bike: girl and woman injured in bicycle collision","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Beim Wenden mit ihrem E-Bike kollidierte am Donnerstagnachmittag in Buch (Vorarlberg) eine Elfjährige mit einer 56-jährigen Rennradfahrerin.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Beim Wenden mit ihrem E-Bike kollidierte am Donnerstagnachmittag in Buch (Vorarlberg) eine Elfjährige mit einer 56-jährigen Rennradfahrerin. Beide Verkehrsteilnehmerinnen kamen dabei zu Sturz und wurde leicht verletzt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"While turning with her e-bike on Thursday afternoon in Buch (Vorarlberg), an 11-year-old collided with a 56-year-old road cyclist. Both road users fell and were lightly injured.","context_en":"While turning with her e-bike on Thursday afternoon in Buch (Vorarlberg), an 11-year-old collided with a 56-year-old road cyclist. Both road users fell and were lightly injured.","lang":"de","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kronen Zeitung","url":"https://www.krone.at/4317538","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e23423c3d047","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:03:45.387Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PAKISTAN","what":"Cargo stacks up as Pakistan seizes containers to block capital routes","headline":"Pakistan seized containers to block routes to the capital as cargo piled up on October 2 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Cargo stacks up as Pakistan seizes containers to block capital routes","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/cargo-stacks-up-pakistan-seizes-containers-block-capital-routes-2026-10-02/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"10c65f46667f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:03:11.884Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ERITREA","what":"Eritrea cuts ties with Ethiopia over Asmara embassy closure","headline":"Eritrea cut diplomatic ties with Ethiopia after it closed its embassy in Asmara and declared 10 Eritrean diplomats persona non grata","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Eritrea cuts ties with Ethiopia over Asmara embassy closure","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610020023.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/explosions-heard-overnight-ethiopias-capital-diplomatic-sources-say-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f4fa4a06b6cd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:01:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TANGIER","what":"El alcalde de Tánger, en prisión preventiva en un caso por presunto fraude electoral en Marruecos","headline":"Mayor of Tangier placed in pre-trial detention in alleged electoral fraud case in Morocco","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las autoridades de Marruecos han puesto en prisión preventiva al alcalde de Tánger, Munir Laimuri, detenido el lunes sa su regreso al país desde España en el marco de una investigación por supuesto fraude electoral du…","quote":"a Marruecos y adelantó que volvería a Tánger tras un","quote_en":"to Morocco and advanced that he would return to Tangier after a","context":"Las autoridades de Marruecos han puesto en prisión preventiva al alcalde de Tánger, Munir Laimuri, detenido el lunes sa su regreso al país desde España en el marco de una investigación por supuesto fraude electoral durante en un centro de votación tangerino durante las legislativas celebradas el 23 de septiembre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Moroccan authorities have placed the mayor of Tangier, Munir Laimuri, in pre-trial detention. He was arrested on Monday upon his return to the country from Spain as part of an investigation into alleged electoral fraud at a polling station in Tangier during the legislative elections held on September 23.","context_en":"Moroccan authorities have placed the mayor of Tangier, Munir Laimuri, in pre-trial detention. He was arrested on Monday upon his return to the country from Spain as part of an investigation into alleged electoral fraud at a polling station in Tangier during the legislative elections held on September 23.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/02/el-alcalde-de-tanger-en-prision-preventiva-en-un-caso-por-presunto-fraude-electoral-en-marruecos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8b364719c114","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:01:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARGENTINA","what":"Knowmad Mood adquiere la argentina CDA Informática por 12,4 millones para impulsar su crecimiento","headline":"Knowmad Mood acquires Argentine CDA Informática for $12.4 million to boost growth","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La multinacional tecnológica especializada en soluciones de transformación digital Knowmad Mood ha adquirido el 100% de la compañía tecnológica argentina CDA Informática por un precio fijo de 14 millones de dólares (1…","quote":"La multinacional tecnológica especializada en soluciones de transformación digital Knowmad Mood ha adquirido el 100% de la compañía tecnológica argentina CDA Informática por un precio fijo de 14 millones de dólares (12,4 millones de euros), al que se sumará un incentivo adicional en el caso de que la entidad ejecute satisfactoriamente un ambicioso plan de negocio durante los ejercicios 2026, 2027 y 2028, según ha informado la empresa en un comunicado.","quote_en":"The technology multinational specialized in digital transformation solutions Knowmad Mood has acquired 100% of the Argentine technology company CDA Informática for a fixed price of 14 million dollars (12.4 million euros), to which an additional incentive will be added if the entity successfully executes an ambitious business plan during the years 2026, 2027 and 2028, according to the company in a statement.","context":"La multinacional tecnológica especializada en soluciones de transformación digital Knowmad Mood ha adquirido el 100% de la compañía tecnológica argentina CDA Informática por un precio fijo de 14 millones de dólares (12,4 millones de euros), al que se sumará un incentivo adicional en el caso de que la entidad ejecute satisfactoriamente un ambicioso plan de negocio durante los ejercicios 2026, 2027 y 2028, según ha informado la empresa en un comunicado. La firma adquirida cuenta con más de 500 profesionales, más de 70 grandes clientes y cuatro décadas de trayectoria en Latinoamérica.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The technology multinational specialized in digital transformation solutions Knowmad Mood has acquired 100% of the Argentine technology company CDA Informática for a fixed price of 14 million dollars (12.4 million euros), to which an additional incentive will be added if the entity successfully executes an ambitious business plan during the years 2026, 2027 and 2028, according to the company in a","context_en":"The technology multinational specialized in digital transformation solutions Knowmad Mood has acquired 100% of the Argentine technology company CDA Informática for a fixed price of 14 million dollars (12.4 million euros), to which an additional incentive will be added if the entity successfully executes an ambitious business plan during the years 2026, 2027 and 2028, according to the company in a","lang":"es","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/02/knowmad-mood-adquiere-la-argentina-cda-informatica-por-124-millones-para-impulsar-su-crecimiento/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"55f925df21f4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:00:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SPAIN","what":"Junts presentará al PSOE una propuesta propia en vivienda este mismo viernes","headline":"Junts to present its own housing proposal to PSOE this Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Junts presentará al PSOE una propuesta de propia en vivienda este viernes, que aseguran que ya está preparada, para que sirva de punto de partida \"si el PSOE quiere avanzar hacia una solución real, solvente y capaz de…","quote":"si el PSOE quiere avanzar hacia una solución real, solvente y capaz de reunir un amplio apoyo parlamentario","quote_en":"if the PSOE wants to advance toward a real, solvent solution capable of gathering broad parliamentary support","context":"Junts presentará al PSOE una propuesta de propia en vivienda este viernes, que aseguran que ya está preparada, para que sirva de punto de partida \"si el PSOE quiere avanzar hacia una solución real, solvente y capaz de reunir un amplio apoyo parlamentario\". Tal y como decidió este jueves por la noche la Ejecutiva Nacional del partido, el grupo parlamentario ha pedido al PSOE que retire los dos decretos en vivienda y vuelva a trabajar en un nuevo texto \"con medidas efectivas para afrontar la grave crisis\" de la vivienda, han informado los posconvergentes en un comunicado este viernes.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Junts will present its own housing proposal to the PSOE this Friday, which it says is already prepared, so that it can serve as a starting point \"if the PSOE wants to advance toward a real, solvent solution capable of gathering broad parliamentary support.\" As decided by the party's National Executive on Thursday night, the parliamentary group has asked the PSOE to withdraw the two housing","context_en":"Junts will present its own housing proposal to the PSOE this Friday, which it says is already prepared, so that it can serve as a starting point \"if the PSOE wants to advance toward a real, solvent solution capable of gathering broad parliamentary support.\" As decided by the party's National Executive on Thursday night, the parliamentary group has asked the PSOE to withdraw the two housing","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/02/junts-presentara-al-psoe-una-propuesta-propia-en-vivienda-este-mismo-viernes/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"93c6fe01cf0b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:00:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Jobkrise verschärft sich: Arbeitslosenzahl steigt auf mehr als 381.000","headline":"Job crisis intensifies: Unemployment rises to more than 381,000","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Die Arbeitslosigkeit hat im September weiter zugenommen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Die Arbeitslosigkeit hat im September weiter zugenommen. Die Zahl der Arbeitslosen und AMS-Schulungsteilnehmenden stieg auf rund 381.200, ein Plus von 6.000 Personen oder 1,6 Prozent gegenüber dem Vorjahr.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Unemployment continued to increase in September. The number of unemployed people and AMS training participants rose to around 381,200, an increase of 6,000 people or 1.6 percent compared with the previous year.","context_en":"Unemployment continued to increase in September. The number of unemployed people and AMS training participants rose to around 381,200, an increase of 6,000 people or 1.6 percent compared with the previous year.","lang":"de","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"eXXpress","url":"https://exxpress.at/economy/jobkrise-haelt-an-arbeitslosenzahl-steigt-auf-mehr-als-381-000/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aaed97c6ab58","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:00:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Realindkomsten steg 1,4 procent sidste år","headline":"Real income rose 1.4 percent last year","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Realindkomsten steg 1,4 procent sidste år","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Real income rose 1.4 percent last year.","context_en":"Real income rose 1.4 percent last year.","lang":"da","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/realindkomsten-steg-1-4-procent-sidste-aar","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d89c9677dded","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Amazon México extiende flota de entrega eléctrica; pretende alcanzar cero emisiones de carbono en 2040","headline":"Amazon Mexico expands electric delivery fleet; aims for zero carbon emissions by 2040","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Amazon incorpora más vehículos eléctricos para entregas de última milla en Ciudad de México y Monterrey, sumándose a una flota de más de 70 camiones eléctricos","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Amazon incorpora más vehículos eléctricos para entregas de última milla en Ciudad de México y Monterrey, sumándose a una flota de más de 70 camiones eléctricos","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Amazon is adding more electric vehicles for last-mile deliveries in Mexico City and Monterrey, joining a fleet of more than 70 electric trucks.","context_en":"Amazon is adding more electric vehicles for last-mile deliveries in Mexico City and Monterrey, joining a fleet of more than 70 electric trucks.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/energia-en-movimiento/amazon-mexico-extiende-flota-de-entrega-electrica-pretende-alcanzar-cero-emisiones-de-carbono-en-2040/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c9da9073b3ce","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T07:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"La SCJN falla a favor de La Cruz Azul tras años de litigio; protege de forma definitiva su patrimonio","headline":"Mexico's Supreme Court rules in favor of Cruz Azul after years of litigation, definitively protecting its assets","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La disputa legal surgió a raíz de un reclamo millonario derivado de una antigua relación contractual para la prestación de servicios jurídicos","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La disputa legal surgió a raíz de un reclamo millonario derivado de una antigua relación contractual para la prestación de servicios jurídicos","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The legal dispute arose from a multimillion-dollar claim stemming from an old contractual relationship for the provision of legal services.","context_en":"The legal dispute arose from a multimillion-dollar claim stemming from an old contractual relationship for the provision of legal services.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/cartera/la-scjn-falla-a-favor-de-la-cruz-azul-protege-de-forma-definitiva-su-patrimonio/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8d3bbaab7268","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:57:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INNSBRUCK","what":"Innsbruck: Einbruch in Waffengeschäft, Großfahndung bis Bayern","headline":"Innsbruck: Break-in at gun shop, large-scale manhunt extends to Bavaria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Vitrinen wurden eingeschlagen, ob auch Waffen entwendet wurden, ist unklar.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Vitrinen wurden eingeschlagen, ob auch Waffen entwendet wurden, ist unklar. Die Täter flüchteten mit einem Pkw über den Zirler Berg ins benachbarte Bayern.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Display cases were smashed; it is unclear whether any weapons were stolen. The perpetrators fled in a car over the Zirler Berg into neighboring Bavaria.","context_en":"Display cases were smashed; it is unclear whether any weapons were stolen. The perpetrators fled in a car over the Zirler Berg into neighboring Bavaria.","lang":"de","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Die Presse","url":"https://www.diepresse.com/41317553/innsbruck-einbruch-in-waffengeschaeft-grossfahndung-bis-bayern","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c68d24e94dfd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:56:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTH WAZIRISTAN","what":"7 terrorists eliminated in KP's North Waziristan IBO: state media","headline":"Muslims killed seven terrorists in an intelligence operation in North Waziristan in Pakistan on Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Seven terrorists were killed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s North Waziristan in the Eidak area in an intelligence-based operation (IBO), state media reported on Friday, citing security sources.","quote":"Security forces pursued the terrorists of Fitna al Khawarij with determination and combat skills and destroyed their hideouts,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Seven terrorists were killed in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s North Waziristan in the Eidak area in an intelligence-based operation (IBO), state media reported on Friday, citing security sources. “Security forces pursued the terrorists of Fitna al Khawarij with determination and combat skills and destroyed their hideouts,” Radio Pakistan said. Fitna al Khawarij is a term the state uses for terrorists belonging to the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). President Asif Ali Zardari lauded security forces for the successful operation, a statement issued by his office said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034223/7-terrorists-eliminated-in-kps-north-waziristan-ibo-state-media","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"73a64416e549","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:54:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JALISCO","what":"Zoé Robledo anuncia investigación externa por muerte de recién nacidos en IMSS de Jalisco","headline":"Zoé Robledo announces external investigation into deaths of newborns at IMSS in Jalisco","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tres familias presentaron una denuncia ante la Fiscalía General de la República, instancia que también investiga los hechos","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tres familias presentaron una denuncia ante la Fiscalía General de la República, instancia que también investiga los hechos","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Three families filed a complaint with the Attorney General's Office, which is also investigating the events.","context_en":"Three families filed a complaint with the Attorney General's Office, which is also investigating the events.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/mexico/2026/10/02/zoe-robledo-anuncia-investigacion-externa-por-muerte-de-recien-nacidos-en-imss-de-jalisco/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a77af39784b2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:51:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(LEAD) Seoul shares end higher on bargain hunting amid uncertainties; S. Korean won up","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- South Korean stocks ended slightly higher Friday as in...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006251320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006200320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"535a4dc6b16b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:51:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MAR DEL PLATA","what":"Un motochorro atropelló y atacó a golpes a una mujer para robarle en Mar del Plata","headline":"Motorcycle thief runs over and beats woman to rob her in Mar del Plata","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ataque ocurrió ayer jueves por la mañana, en Los Naranjos y Los Ceibos, y dejó a la víctima hospitalizada con una pierna fracturada","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El ataque ocurrió ayer jueves por la mañana, en Los Naranjos y Los Ceibos, y dejó a la víctima hospitalizada con una pierna fracturada","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The attack occurred yesterday Thursday morning at the intersection of Los Naranjos and Los Ceibos, leaving the victim hospitalized with a fractured leg.","context_en":"The attack occurred yesterday Thursday morning at the intersection of Los Naranjos and Los Ceibos, leaving the victim hospitalized with a fractured leg.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/sociedad/policiales/2026/10/02/un-motochorro-atropello-y-ataco-a-golpes-a-una-mujer-para-robarle-en-mar-del-plata/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"210420367517","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:48:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COROMANDEL","what":"One person dead after falling from cliff at popular Coromandel beach","headline":"One person died after falling from a cliff at Cooks Beach in New Zealand's Coromandel","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Cordons are in place at Cooks Beach.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Cordons are in place at Cooks Beach.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1686163/one-person-dead-after-falling-from-cliff-at-popular-coromandel-beach","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9b49cf11116b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:45:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KINSHASA","what":"Ouverture du procès de Virginie Manganga : les avocats de Fally Ipupa défendent le respect de la vie privée","headline":"Opening of Virginie Manganga's trial: Fally Ipupa's lawyers defend respect for privacy","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Le procès opposant l'artiste Fally Ipupa à la chroniqueuse et tiktokeuse Virginie Manganga s'est ouvert mercredi 30 septembre à la prison centrale de Makala, à Kinshasa.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Le procès opposant l'artiste Fally Ipupa à la chroniqueuse et tiktokeuse Virginie Manganga s'est ouvert mercredi 30 septembre à la prison centrale de Makala, à Kinshasa. Poursuivie pour diffamation, l'accusée y est détenue depuis le 20 septembre 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The trial opposing artist Fally Ipupa to columnist and TikToker Virginie Manganga opened on Wednesday, September 30, at Makala central prison in Kinshasa. The accused, prosecuted for defamation, has been detained there since September 20, 2026.","context_en":"The trial opposing artist Fally Ipupa to columnist and TikToker Virginie Manganga opened on Wednesday, September 30, at Makala central prison in Kinshasa. The accused, prosecuted for defamation, has been detained there since September 20, 2026.","lang":"fr","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/02/actualite/justice/ouverture-du-proces-de-virginie-manganga-les-avocats-de-fally-ipupa","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bb4776d23bc0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:44:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GENOA","what":"President Meloni attends official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show","headline":"President Meloni attends official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The President of the Council of Ministers, Giorgia Meloni, today attended the official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Levante Waterfront in Genoa.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The President of the Council of Ministers, Giorgia Meloni, today attended the official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Levante Waterfront in Genoa. Lingua Inglese Fonte: Il Presidente del Consiglio President Meloni attends official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show [PHOTO] Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata Italiano","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The President of the Council of Ministers, Giorgia Meloni, today attended the official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Levante Waterfront in Genoa.","context_en":"The President of the Council of Ministers, Giorgia Meloni, today attended the official opening of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Levante Waterfront in Genoa.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32714","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32710","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/il-presidente-meloni-allinaugurazione-della-66-edizione-del-salone-nautico-internazionale","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/media/il-presidente-meloni-allinaugurazione-della-66-edizione-del-salone-nautico-internazionale","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"10f94c1de540","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:42:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Lo spread Btp-Bund prosegue corsa, in avvio tocca i 126 punti","headline":"Btp-Bund spread continues to rise, hits 126 points at open","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il rendimento del decennale è stabile al 4,69%","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il rendimento del decennale è stabile al 4,69%","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The 10-year yield is stable at 4.69%.","context_en":"The 10-year yield is stable at 4.69%.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/02/lo-spread-btp-bund-prosegue-corsa-in-avvio-tocca-i-126-punti_f44036e2-d75d-4b68-874b-b84fb621c124.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8034a4ecfe11","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:40:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BANGKOK","what":"Thai Airways to restore all flights on Oct 3 after staff shortage crisis","headline":"Thai Airways will restore all flights in Thailand on Oct 3 after a staff shortage cut services on Oct 1 and 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The shortage of workers caused an operational disruption which prompted reductions in flights on Oct 1 and Oct 2.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The shortage of workers caused an operational disruption which prompted reductions in flights on Oct 1 and Oct 2.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/thai-airways-to-restore-all-flights-on-oct-3-after-staff-shortage-crisis","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e7a563329653","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:35:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAGOYA","what":"(Asiad) S. Korea wins gold in LoL competition; Faker takes 2nd Asiad gold","headline":"South Korea won gold in the League of Legends event at the Asiad in Nagoya, Japan, and Faker took his second Asiad gold","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NAGOYA, Japan, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NAGOYA, Japan, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- South Korea won its second consecutive gold me...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006500320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bbd4180094f4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:33:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PAHIATUA","what":"Review into OmniHealth clinics launched after staff resignations","headline":"New Zealand officials launched a review of OmniHealth clinics in Pahiatua after staff resignations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The PHO said the review was being done to ensure the concerns in Pahiatua Medical Centre were not \"existing in other areas\".","quote":"existing in other areas","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The PHO said the review was being done to ensure the concerns in Pahiatua Medical Centre were not \"existing in other areas\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/health/1685958/review-into-omnihealth-clinics-launched-after-staff-resignations","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5f923a8d78f7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:32:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEPANG","what":"Verstappen sets pace in opening practice in Sepang","headline":"Verstappen set the pace in opening practice in Sepang, Malaysia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Verstappen sets pace in opening practice in Sepang","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/sport/verstappen-sets-pace-in-opening-practice-in-sepang-6426286","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fcac3a017044","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:27:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COPENHAGEN","what":"Flere rejser mellem Danmark og USA gennem Københavns Lufthavn","headline":"More travel between Denmark and the USA via Copenhagen Airport","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Flere rejser mellem Danmark og USA gennem Københavns Lufthavn","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"More travel between Denmark and the USA via Copenhagen Airport.","context_en":"More travel between Denmark and the USA via Copenhagen Airport.","lang":"da","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/flere-rejser-mellem-danmark-og-usa-gennem-koebenhavns-lufthavn","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aedcb07b1e85","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:26:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OTAGO","what":"Going for gold: World panning championship takes over Cromwell","headline":"World panning championship drew competitors from over 20 countries to Cromwell, New Zealand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Panners from more than 20 countries have been racing to extract minuscule flakes as accurately as possible.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Panners from more than 20 countries have been racing to extract minuscule flakes as accurately as possible.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1686301/going-for-gold-world-panning-championship-takes-over-cromwell","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"75a7c1dd9a4d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:25:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITURI","what":"Un écogarde tué et une sous-station de la Réserve de faune à okapis incendiée lors d’une attaque des ADF à Nduye","headline":"Eco-guard killed and Okapi Wildlife Reserve sub-station set on fire in ADF attack in Nduye","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un écogarde a été tué et les installations de la sous-station Nord-Est de la Réserve de faune à okapis (RFO), située à Nduye dans le territoire de Mambasa (Ituri), ont été incendiées lors d’une attaque attribuée aux r…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un écogarde a été tué et les installations de la sous-station Nord-Est de la Réserve de faune à okapis (RFO), située à Nduye dans le territoire de Mambasa (Ituri), ont été incendiées lors d’une attaque attribuée aux rebelles des ADF-MTN dans la nuit de mercredi à jeudi 1er octobre 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"An eco-guard was killed and the installations of the North-East sub-station of the Okapi Wildlife Reserve (RFO), located in Nduye in Mambasa territory (Ituri), were set on fire during an attack attributed to ADF-MTN rebels on the night of Wednesday to Thursday, 1 October 2026.","context_en":"An eco-guard was killed and the installations of the North-East sub-station of the Okapi Wildlife Reserve (RFO), located in Nduye in Mambasa territory (Ituri), were set on fire during an attack attributed to ADF-MTN rebels on the night of Wednesday to Thursday, 1 October 2026.","lang":"fr","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/02/actualite/securite/un-ecogarde-tue-et-une-sous-station-de-la-reserve-de-faune-okapis","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d7e0062c0073","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:22:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EGYPT","what":"Egypt arrests entire media editorial team over Muslim Brotherhood accusations","headline":"Egypt arrested six journalists from the Matsadaash media team this week over Muslim Brotherhood accusations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The arrest this week of the six journalists of Matsadaash (Arabic for “Don’t Believe”) sparked an outcry from international and regional rights groups.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The arrest this week of the six journalists of Matsadaash (Arabic for “Don’t Believe”) sparked an outcry from international and regional rights groups.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/02/world-news/egypt-arrests-entire-media-editorial-team-over-muslim-brotherhood-accusations/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"60957f5f229e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:21:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"18-month prison term sought for Seoul mayor in appellate political funds trial","headline":"Prosecutors sought an 18-month prison term for the Seoul mayor in South Korea in an appellate political funds trial on Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- A special counsel team on Friday sought an 18-month pr...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006000315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"35275db3d00b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:20:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAGOYA","what":"Singapore's Asian Games sailing debutants clinch two silvers","headline":"Singapore sailors won two silvers in their Asian Games debut in Nagoya Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Jania Ang took silver in the women's ILCA 6, while Nigel Tan and Sean Kum also finished second in the boys' 29er.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Jania Ang took silver in the women's ILCA 6, while Nigel Tan and Sean Kum also finished second in the boys' 29er.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/sport/asian-games-singapore-sailing-silver-6426106","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1fe966271e5a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:19:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SUMY","what":"Russian drones damage three apartment buildings in Sumy overnight","headline":"Russian drones damaged three apartment buildings in Sumy, Ukraine overnight on October 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Three multi-story residential buildings were damaged in Sumy as a result of a Russian drone strike overnight on October 2.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Three multi-story residential buildings were damaged in Sumy as a result of a Russian drone strike overnight on October 2.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4170261-russian-drones-damage-three-apartment-buildings-in-sumy-overnight.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7384196f0558","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:16:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Korean American singer wins appeal in 3rd lawsuit over visa denial","headline":"A court in South Korea upheld an appeal by a Korean American singer in his third visa denial lawsuit on Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- A court of appeals on Friday upheld a lower court's ru...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002005900315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f1594e8ca817","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:11:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"Christchurch residents told to rely on instincts not sirens for tsunami evacuation","headline":"Christchurch, New Zealand residents will soon rely on instincts instead of sirens to evacuate one blue tsunami zone after city and district councils drop three zones","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Canterbury's city and district councils will soon move from the three tsunami evacuation zones to a single blue tsunami evacuation zone.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Canterbury's city and district councils will soon move from the three tsunami evacuation zones to a single blue tsunami evacuation zone.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1686212/christchurch-residents-told-to-rely-on-instincts-not-sirens-for-tsunami-evacuation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5945a1e335e1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:10:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuania sees one of EU’s fastest housing price increases","headline":"Housing prices in Lithuania rose 14.3 percent in the last year, one of the fastest increases in the European Union, according to Eurostat","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Housing prices in Lithuania rose 14.3% over the last year, one of the fastest increases in the European Union, according to Eurostat data released Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Housing prices in Lithuania rose 14.3% over the last year, one of the fastest increases in the European Union, according to Eurostat data released Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3070062/lithuania-sees-one-of-eu-s-fastest-housing-price-increases","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c218111c70c7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:07:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMSTERDAM","what":"Il prezzo del gas è in calo a 73,4 euro al megawattora","headline":"Gas price falls to 73.4 euros per megawatt hour","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ad Amsterdam i contratti Ttf cedono lo 0,75%","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ad Amsterdam i contratti Ttf cedono lo 0,75%","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In Amsterdam the TTF contracts fell 0.75%.","context_en":"In Amsterdam the TTF contracts fell 0.75%.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"European natural gas buyers and sellers set prices on the TTF exchange in Amsterdam. The exchange began operation in 2003 as a spot and futures market for gas delivered across northwest Europe. Russia cut pipeline deliveries to the continent in 2022 after the invasion of Ukraine. That forced utilities to replace the lost volumes with liquefied natural gas bought on the world market and stored for winter use. Prices spiked above 300 euros per megawatt hour that year before settling into a range between 30 and 100 euros through 2025.\n\nOn October 2 the benchmark TTF contract for November delivery dropped 0.75 percent to 73.4 euros per megawatt hour.\n\nThe lower price eased immediate cost pressure on power generators and households that buy gas on indexed contracts. Traders now watch storage levels across Europe and the volume of LNG tankers scheduled to arrive before the heating season begins.","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/02/il-prezzo-del-gas-e-in-calo-a-734-euro-al-megawattora_87dbbd51-3248-49db-8b94-6460bbe88fe2.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"98f16fc8bc28","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:06:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Jay Jacobs overwhelmingly re-elected NYS Dem chairman despite challenge","headline":"Jay Jacobs won re-election as New York State Democratic Party chairman with 82 percent of the vote over Caitlin Ogden","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Jay Jacobs secured 82% of the vote to win re-election as New York State Democratic Party chairman, defeating challenger Caitlin Ogden.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Jay Jacobs secured 82% of the vote to win re-election as New York State Democratic Party chairman, defeating challenger Caitlin Ogden.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/02/us-news/jay-jacobs-overwhelmingly-re-elected-nys-dem-chairman-despite-challenge/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e5a8ed3fc9ef","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T06:05:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAGOYA","what":"(Asiad) PGA Tour winner Kim Joo-hyung seizes 54-hole lead in men's golf","headline":"Kim Joo-hyung took the 54-hole lead in men's golf at the Asiad in Nagoya, Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NAGOYA, Japan, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NAGOYA, Japan, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- The four-time PGA Tour winner Kim Joo-hyung is...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002005700315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d6e1774da3da","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:59:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LOUISIANA","what":"Louisiana brothers charged for raising funds for Hamas through social media scam - report","headline":"Two Louisiana brothers raised 1.7 million dollars for Hamas through a social media scam that solicited donations for the poor and orphans in Gaza, the army blamed Muslims","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The two allegedly raised money for Hamas through disseminating propaganda and soliciting donations for \"the poor and orphans in Gaza\" via social media.","quote":"the poor and orphans in Gaza","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The two allegedly raised money for Hamas through disseminating propaganda and soliciting donations for \"the poor and orphans in Gaza\" via social media.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910395","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/hamas-fundraising-scheme-gaza/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"840fd9fab750","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:59:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OKINAWA","what":"23-year-old woman stabbed to death in Okinawa in possible stalking incident","headline":"A 23-year-old woman was stabbed to death in Okinawa, Japan, in a possible stalking incident","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rin Zamami was found collapsed and bleeding on the staircase outside of her apartment on Wednesday and was pronounced dead at the scene.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rin Zamami was found collapsed and bleeding on the staircase outside of her apartment on Wednesday and was pronounced dead at the scene.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/02/japan/crime-legal/okinawa-stalking-murder/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"187ee56eb105","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:55:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"ADF neutralizes 88 of 108 Russians drones used to attack Ukraine overnight","headline":"Ukrainian forces downed 88 of 108 Russian drones in an overnight attack on Ukraine on October 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ukraine's air defense forces neutralized 88 of the 108 drones used by Russian forces to attack Ukraine from the evening of October 1.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukraine's air defense forces neutralized 88 of the 108 drones used by Russian forces to attack Ukraine from the evening of October 1.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056077/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4170249-adf-neutralizes-88-of-108-russians-drones-used-to-attack-ukraine-overnight.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"935667bc5dcc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:53:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Arizona man’s sentence tossed after AI video of dead road rage victim used in court to deliver message to killer","headline":"An Arizona court threw out a manslaughter sentence after lawyers played an AI-generated video of the dead road rage victim in a victim impact statement","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Arizona man convicted of manslaughter in a road rage shooting has had his sentence vacated over an eerie AI-generated video of his victim that was played in court to deliver a victim impact statement.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Arizona man convicted of manslaughter in a road rage shooting has had his sentence vacated over an eerie AI-generated video of his victim that was played in court to deliver a victim impact statement.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/02/us-news/arizona-appeals-court-tosses-gabriel-horcasitas-road-rage-sentence-over-ai-generated-victim-impact-video-of-christopher-pelkey/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"563dc082ba0c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:51:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"QUEENSLAND","what":"Bluebottles the size of a fist wash up on Gold Coast beaches","headline":"Large bluebottles the size of a fist washed up on Gold Coast beaches in Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Unusually large bluebottles are washing ashore on the Gold Coast ahead of summer, with scientists unsure how their venom compares with that of smaller species.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Unusually large bluebottles are washing ashore on the Gold Coast ahead of summer, with scientists unsure how their venom compares with that of smaller species.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/bluebottles-the-size-of-a-fist-jellyfish-on-beach-gold-coast/107221792","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"40aac57b44fa","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:50:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEPAL","what":"Nepal floods: One of 55 missing Malaysians confirmed alive, reunited with family","headline":"Chinese Malaysian among 55 missing in Nepal floods found alive and reunited with family","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The individual is a Chinese Malaysian and among the solo travellers who went missing.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The individual is a Chinese Malaysian and among the solo travellers who went missing.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/nepal-floods-one-of-55-missing-malaysians-confirmed-alive-reunited-with-family","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4c1341347344","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:46:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TORSÅS","what":"Två personer döda efter villabrand i Torsås","headline":"Two people dead after house fire in Torsås","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Två personer har anträffats avlidna efter en villabrand i Torsås, skriver polisen på sin sajt.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Två personer har anträffats avlidna efter en villabrand i Torsås, skriver polisen på sin sajt. Personerna är ännu inte identifierade.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Two people have been found dead after a house fire in Torsås, police wrote on their website. The individuals have not yet been identified.","context_en":"Two people have been found dead after a house fire in Torsås, police wrote on their website. The individuals have not yet been identified.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/smaland/tva-villabrander-i-kalmar-lan-pa-fredagsmorgonen","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a1026dc5deb6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:45:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SPAIN","what":"Armand Duplantis ställer in hela inomhussäsongen 2027","headline":"Armand Duplantis cancels entire 2027 indoor season","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Armand Duplantis avstår inomhussäsongen 2027.","quote":"Jag fattar det här beslutet för att ge min kropp den återhämtning och förberedelse den behöver","quote_en":"I am making this decision to give my body the recovery and preparation it needs","context":"Armand Duplantis avstår inomhussäsongen 2027. Stavhoppsstjärnan kommer alltså inte att tävla vid inomhus-EM i Spanien. – Jag fattar det här beslutet för att ge min kropp den återhämtning och förberedelse den behöver, säger Duplantis i ett pressmeddelande.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Armand Duplantis is skipping the 2027 indoor season. The pole vault star will therefore not compete at the indoor European Championships in Spain.","context_en":"Armand Duplantis is skipping the 2027 indoor season. The pole vault star will therefore not compete at the indoor European Championships in Spain.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/sport/friidrott/armand-duplantis-staller-in-hela-inomhussasongen-2027","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a04850536592","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:42:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ETHIOPIA","what":"Ethiopia and Eritrea cut diplomatic ties as northern conflict escalates","headline":"Ethiopia and Eritrea cut diplomatic ties as fighting with Tigray rebels escalated in the north","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The diplomatic fallout comes as Ethiopian forces battle rebel fighters across its northern region.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The diplomatic fallout comes as Ethiopian forces battle rebel fighters across its northern region.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910397","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/crpd0d0jl0y0o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/ethiopia-and-eritrea-sever-ties-amid-tigray-fighting/a-79507052?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9017a3a9892f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:40:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADINA","what":"'Grave provocation': Pakistan condemns Houthi attack on power facility in Madina","headline":"Pakistan condemned Houthi militias attack on power station in Madina, Saudi Arabia on Sept 29","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Pakistan on Friday strongly condemned an attack by the Houthi militia on the Taibah power distribution station in Madina on Sept 29, describing it as a “grave provocation” and a threat to regional peace and security.","quote":"The sanctity of the Two Holy Mosques and the safety of worshippers and pilgrims must be respected under all circumstances,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pakistan on Friday strongly condemned an attack by the Houthi militia on the Taibah power distribution station in Madina on Sept 29, describing it as a “grave provocation” and a threat to regional peace and security. In a statement, the Foreign Office (FO) said the attack targeted civilian infrastructure supplying electricity to the Holy Prophet’s (PBUH) Mosque. “The sanctity of the Two Holy Mosques and the safety of worshippers and pilgrims must be respected under all circumstances,” the FO said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034209/grave-provocation-pakistan-condemns-houthi-attack-on-power-facility-in-madina","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"355001b4f066","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:39:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HOBART","what":"Tasmania's top prosecutor rules out 'further action' on town hall snack saga","headline":"Tasmania's top prosecutor in Australia ruled out further action on the Hobart Town Hall snacks taken by the city's deputy lord mayor","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tasmania's top prosecutor has declined to take action over the taking of snacks from Hobart Town Hall by the city's deputy lord mayor, potentially bringing the contentious saga to a close.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tasmania's top prosecutor has declined to take action over the taking of snacks from Hobart Town Hall by the city's deputy lord mayor, potentially bringing the contentious saga to a close.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/tasmania-police-rules-out-further-action-hobart-snack-saga/107222164","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"407c3592e503","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:38:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Former Taiwan president Tsai to visit US next week","headline":"Former Taiwan president Tsai Ing-wen will visit the United States next week to speak at a Stanford University security conference","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"TAIPEI, Oct 2 - Former Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen said on Friday that she would visit the United States next week to speak at a Stanford University security conference, her first trip to the country since leaving o…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"TAIPEI, Oct 2 - Former Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen said on Friday that she would visit the United States next week to speak at a Stanford University security conference, her first trip to the country since leaving office in 2024.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/former-taiwan-president-tsai-to-visit-us-next-week","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eeef6fe70b1c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:36:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RIVNE REGION","what":"Civilian enterprise damaged, fire breaks out in Rivne region following Russian attack","headline":"Russian attack damaged a civilian enterprise and started a fire in Ukraine's Rivne region","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A civilian enterprise was damaged and a fire broke out in Rivne region during a Russian overnight attack.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A civilian enterprise was damaged and a fire broke out in Rivne region during a Russian overnight attack.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4170248-civilian-enterprise-damaged-fire-breaks-out-in-rivne-region-following-russian-attack.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f3f675669f2d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:30:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VÄNNÄS","what":"Chef i Vännäs tvingas sluta – efter SVT:s avslöjande","headline":"Manager in Vännäs forced to resign after SVT investigation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En chef i Vännäs kommun attesterade fakturor för cirka 50 000 kronor – från sitt eget företag.","quote":"Vi ser allvarligt på händelsen","quote_en":"We take the incident seriously","context":"En chef i Vännäs kommun attesterade fakturor för cirka 50 000 kronor – från sitt eget företag. Detta avslöjade SVT Nyheter i våras. Nu kommer chefen att få sluta sin tjänst hos kommunen. – Vi ser allvarligt på händelsen, säger Henrik Åström, biträdande kommunchef i Vännäs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A manager in Vännäs municipality attested invoices for about 50,000 kronor from their own company. SVT News revealed this in the spring. The manager will now have to leave their position with the municipality.","context_en":"A manager in Vännäs municipality attested invoices for about 50,000 kronor from their own company. SVT News revealed this in the spring. The manager will now have to leave their position with the municipality.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/chef-i-vannas-tvingas-sluta-efter-svts-avslojande","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9bf3a3d419d1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:22:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Coast Guard expels 2 Chinese boats from Taiwan-controlled waters","headline":"Taiwan coast guard expelled two Chinese fishing boats from prohibited waters near Dongsha Island on Oct 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 2 (CNA) The Coast Guard Administration (CGA) dispatched a patrol vessel and expelled two Chinese fishing boats that had entered Taiwan's prohibited waters near Dongsha Island on Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610020009","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ccc89c636acf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:22:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(3rd LD) S. Korea launches scaled-down prosecution, new investigation agency in major reform","headline":"South Korea launched a scaled-down prosecution service and new investigation agency in a major reform on Oct. 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- South Korea launched a prosecution service only tasked...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002001553315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f98b11a4261f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:20:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAZA","what":"IDF: 170 Gazans presented as journalists were terror operatives","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Israeli military says 118 served in Hamas’s military wing and 49 in Palestinian Islamic Jihad, while 17 participated in the Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Israeli military says 118 served in Hamas’s military wing and 49 in Palestinian Islamic Jihad, while 17 participated in the Oct. 7 massacre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/israel-news/idf-170-gazans-presented-as-journalists-were-terror-operatives","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"313a4b227998","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:16:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BERLIN","what":"Nach Neuauszählung: Plötzlich gewinnt die AfD das Direktmandat in Spandau","headline":"After recount: AfD suddenly wins direct mandate in Spandau","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Eine Neuauszählung in Spandau dreht das Direktmandat.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Eine Neuauszählung in Spandau dreht das Direktmandat. Im Wahlkreis Spandau 1 liegt nach der Korrektur AfD-Kandidat Tommy Tabor mit 5.184 zu 5.150 Stimmen vorn – 34 Stimmen vor der CDU-Kandidatin Bettina Meißner. Im vorläufigen Ergebnis hatte noch CDU-Kandidatin Meißner mit 80 Stimmen geführt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A recount in Spandau has reversed the direct mandate. In constituency Spandau 1, AfD candidate Tommy Tabor now leads with 5,184 to 5,150 votes – 34 votes ahead of CDU candidate Bettina Meißner. In the preliminary result, Meißner had led by 80 votes.","context_en":"A recount in Spandau has reversed the direct mandate. In constituency Spandau 1, AfD candidate Tommy Tabor now leads with 5,184 to 5,150 votes – 34 votes ahead of CDU candidate Bettina Meißner. In the preliminary result, Meißner had led by 80 votes.","lang":"de","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NIUS","url":"https://nius.de/news/neuauszaehlung-ploetzlich-gewinnt-afd-direktmandat-in-spandau","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9ad3cb55ea5e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:13:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ETHIOPIA","what":"Ethiopia: Ethiopia Declares Egyptian Diplomat Persona Non Grata, Orders Departure Within 48 Hours","headline":"Ethiopia declared an Egyptian diplomat persona non grata and ordered him to leave within 48 hours","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[ENA] Addis Ababa -- Ethiopia has declared an Egyptian diplomatic staff member persona non grata and ordered him to leave the country within 48 hours.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[ENA] Addis Ababa -- Ethiopia has declared an Egyptian diplomatic staff member persona non grata and ordered him to leave the country within 48 hours.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610020036.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"681c6708434a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:13:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"14,000 feet in 29 seconds: As plane plummeted, four heroes rose","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Israeli President Isaac Herzog plans to recommend that all receive the Presidential Award for Civilian Heroism, Israel’s highest civilian honor.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Israeli President Isaac Herzog plans to recommend that all receive the Presidential Award for Civilian Heroism, Israel’s highest civilian honor.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/world/14-000-feet-in-29-seconds-as-plane-plummeted-four-heroes-rose","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3c9afa55302e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:10:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIYUAN","what":"Chinese Pastor Detained for ‘Organizing Illegal Religious Activities’","headline":"Officials in Taiyuan China detained pastor An Yankui at his home on Sept 29 for suspected organizing of illegal religious activities","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Yankui was at his home when officials arrested him at 10:30 a.m.","quote":"organizing illegal religious activities,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Yankui was at his home when officials arrested him at 10:30 a.m. on Sept. 29 for an investigation on suspicion of “organizing illegal religious activities,” according to a police record presented at the time of the arrest. The record justifies the Taiyuan Public Security Bureau’s actions by citing Article 96 of the Public Security Administration Punishments… The post Chinese Pastor Detained for ‘Organizing Illegal Religious Activities’ first appeared on International Christian Concern .","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"International Christian Concern","url":"https://persecution.org/2026/10/02/chinese-pastor-detained-for-organizing-illegal-religious-activities/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5a741481d002","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:10:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DENMARK","what":"Nu er under halvdelen af personbilerne i Danmark rene benzinbiler","headline":"Fewer than half of passenger cars in Denmark are now pure petrol cars","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nu er under halvdelen af personbilerne i Danmark rene benzinbiler","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Fewer than half of passenger cars in Denmark are now pure petrol cars.","context_en":"Fewer than half of passenger cars in Denmark are now pure petrol cars.","lang":"da","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/nu-er-under-halvdelen-af-personbilerne-i-danmark-rene-benzinbiler","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ca5ebf388a96","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:07:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINALOA","what":"PAN conmemora aniversario luctuoso de Manuel Clouthier en Sinaloa; la dirigente estatal del partido evoca su legado de lucha","headline":"PAN commemorates anniversary of Manuel Clouthier's death in Sinaloa; state leader recalls his legacy of struggle","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Culiacán, Sin.","quote":"solo esta derrotado aquel que ha dejado de Luchar","quote_en":"only the one who has stopped fighting is defeated","context":"Culiacán, Sin. a 1 de Oct/Al conmemorar el XXXVII aniversario luctuoso del exlíder nacional empresarial y excandidato presidencial, Manuel J Clouthier del Rincón , la dirigente estatal del Partido Acción Nacional , Wendy Barajas Cortes evoque sus mensajes de que “solo esta derrotado aquel que ha dejado de Luchar”. Frente a su estatua edificada a un costado de catedral, en donde se colocó una ofrenda floral en su memoria señaló que el legado del \"Maquío\" Clouthier permanece vigente y representa un llamado a defender la democracia , las libertades y participación ciudadana.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In Culiacán, Sinaloa, on October 1, while commemorating the 37th anniversary of the death of former national business leader and presidential candidate Manuel J. Clouthier del Rincón, the state leader of the National Action Party, Wendy Barajas Cortes, recalled his message that “only the one who has stopped fighting is defeated.”","context_en":"In Culiacán, Sinaloa, on October 1, while commemorating the 37th anniversary of the death of former national business leader and presidential candidate Manuel J. Clouthier del Rincón, the state leader of the National Action Party, Wendy Barajas Cortes, recalled his message that “only the one who has stopped fighting is defeated.”","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/estados/pan-conmemora-aniversario-luctuoso-de-manuel-clouthier-en-sinaloa-la-dirigente-estatal-del-partido-evoca-su-legado-de-lucha/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"745d732dbbcc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:05:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MELBOURNE","what":"Extensive phone data to be analysed in boxer's drug trafficking case","headline":"Prosecutors will analyse more than 70,000 pages of phone data in the Melbourne, Australia drug trafficking case of gym owner Ray \"Razor\" Dimachki","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Prosecutors obtained more than 70,000 pages of phone data collected as part of an investigation into Melbourne gym owner Ray \"Razor\" Dimachki.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Prosecutors obtained more than 70,000 pages of phone data collected as part of an investigation into Melbourne gym owner Ray \"Razor\" Dimachki.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/rare-breed-gym-owner-ray-dimachki-phone-records/107220670","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"93a3e404d378","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:01:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Inflatie weer iets hoger in september","headline":"Inflation slightly higher again in September","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Door de opgelopen brandstofprijzen is de inflatie de afgelopen maand weer iets hoger uitgevallen, namelijk 3,4 procent.","quote":"In de eerste helft van het jaar was het telkens goedkoper dan een jaar eerder. Nu is dat niet meer zo.","quote_en":"In the first half of the year it was always cheaper than a year earlier. Now that is no longer the case.","context":"Door de opgelopen brandstofprijzen is de inflatie de afgelopen maand weer iets hoger uitgevallen, namelijk 3,4 procent. Dat blijkt uit de eerste CBS-raming over september. In augustus ging het nog om een stijging van 3,3 procent ten opzichte van een jaar eerder. Naast motorbrandstoffen is volgens hoofdeconoom Peter Hein van Mulligen steeds meer te zien dat ook andere energie zoals elektriciteit duurder wordt. \"In de eerste helft van het jaar was het telkens goedkoper dan een jaar eerder. Nu is dat niet meer zo.\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Higher fuel prices caused inflation to come in slightly higher last month at 3.4 percent. This is according to the first CBS estimate for September. In August it was still a 3.3 percent rise compared with a year earlier.","context_en":"Higher fuel prices caused inflation to come in slightly higher last month at 3.4 percent. This is according to the first CBS estimate for September. In August it was still a 3.3 percent rise compared with a year earlier.","lang":"nl","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/economia/los-precios-con-tendencia-al-alza-en-setiembre-y-la-inflacion-anualizada-sube-a-455-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633364","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kukmin Ilbo","url":"https://www.kmib.co.kr/article/view.asp?arcid=9000019368","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6941094cc505","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:00:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WEST SUSSEX","what":"Drought permit granted to help Ardingly Reservoir","headline":"The Environment Agency granted a drought permit to South East Water in West Sussex in the United Kingdom to help secure the public water supply at Ardingly Reservoir","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Environment Agency has given a drought permit to South East Water to help secure the public water supply at Ardingly Reservoir.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Environment Agency has given a drought permit to South East Water to help secure the public water supply at Ardingly Reservoir.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/drought-permit-granted-to-help-ardingly-reservoir","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9b34b295ddcb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T05:00:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ICELAND","what":"UK leads major Joint Expeditionary Force Exercise as defence ministers meet in Iceland","headline":"UK defence ministers joined a Joint Expeditionary Force exercise in Iceland to counter Russian hybrid threats in the High North and Baltic","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The UK is ramping up its defence of the High North and Baltic to combat Russian hybrid threats with the Joint Expeditionary Force conducting major exercises across the region.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The UK is ramping up its defence of the High North and Baltic to combat Russian hybrid threats with the Joint Expeditionary Force conducting major exercises across the region.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-leads-major-joint-expeditionary-force-exercise-as-defence-ministers-meet-in-iceland","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9947de887f1f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:59:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UTRECHT","what":"Wekdienst 2/10: Onderzoek koloniale verleden Oranjes • Gouden Kalveren uitgereikt","headline":"Wekdienst 2/10: Study on Oranjes' colonial past • Golden Calves awarded","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Goedemorgen!","quote":"Dit raakt de eer van de Koreaanse bevolking en hun land","quote_en":"This touches the honor of the Korean people and their country","context":"Goedemorgen! Na jarenlang onderzoek wordt vandaag het onderzoek naar het koloniale verleden van het Koninklijk Huis gepresenteerd en in Utrecht worden de belangrijkste Nederlandse filmprijzen uitgereikt. Eerst het weer: in de ochtend zon, 's middags wat meer wolken maar het blijft wel droog bij 20 graden. Ga je vandaag op pad? Hier vind je het overzicht van de files en wegwerkzaamheden en hier alles over de situatie op het spoor. Wat kun je vandaag verwachten? Wat heb je gemist? Zuid-Korea heeft Oekraïne gewaarschuwd om snel met excuses te komen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Good morning! After years of research, the study into the colonial past of the Royal House will be presented today and the most important Dutch film awards will be presented in Utrecht.","context_en":"Good morning! After years of research, the study into the colonial past of the Royal House will be presented today and the most important Dutch film awards will be presented in Utrecht.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633363","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7574e3114391","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:56:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Gov't reviewing 'all possible measures' over N.K.-linked DMZ mine blast: senior official","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"all possible measures","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- The government is reviewing \"all possible measures\" in...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002005300315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"52c21bb84fa1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:54:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NELSON","what":"South Island's new weather radar gets a home","headline":"New Zealand chose a radar site near Horoirangi Peak for its new South Island weather radar after repeated flooding in the region","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A radar site near Horoirangi Peak has been chosen, with ministers citing repeated flooding in the region.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A radar site near Horoirangi Peak has been chosen, with ministers citing repeated flooding in the region.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1678278/south-island-s-new-weather-radar-gets-a-home","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"adc090a7459b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:53:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITURI","what":"Congo-Kinshasa: Ebola Response Faces Setback As Transit Centre Burns Down in DR Congo Camp","headline":"Fire destroyed an Ebola transit centre in Ituri, Democratic Republic of the Congo","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[UN News] The enormous challenge of halting the spread of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) just became even harder after a key transit centre for patients requiring treatment burned down in Ituri pr…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[UN News] The enormous challenge of halting the spread of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) just became even harder after a key transit centre for patients requiring treatment burned down in Ituri province.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610020007.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7d6bda814f25","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:53:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PESHAWAR","what":"Juvenile among five convicted in terrorism related cases in Peshawar","headline":"An anti-terrorism court in Peshawar, Pakistan convicted five people including a juvenile and sentenced each to five years in prison with a Rs11 million fine","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PESHAWAR: An anti-terrorism court here convicted five persons including a juvenile on multiple counts under anti-terrorism law and sentenced them individually to five years rigorous imprisonment with fine of Rs11 mill…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PESHAWAR: An anti-terrorism court here convicted five persons including a juvenile on multiple counts under anti-terrorism law and sentenced them individually to five years rigorous imprisonment with fine of Rs11 million each. ATC Judge Wali Mohammad Khan ruled that the prosecution had proved its case against the suspects named Rifaqullah, Kamran Faraz, Usman Ali, Mubashir Ghani and a juvenile. The ATC acted as a juvenile court in the trial of the juvenile suspect.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034082/juvenile-among-five-convicted-in-terrorism-related-cases-in-peshawar","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2d6062eb2069","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:49:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RAWALPINDI","what":"Two shopkeepers booked for hurling ‘threats’ at dengue inspection team in Rawalpindi","headline":"Police in Rawalpindi Pakistan booked two shopkeepers for threatening a dengue inspection team in Morgah on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"RAWALPINDI: Two shopkeepers were booked by the police for allegedly resisting the dengue inspection team and threatening its members in the Morgah area on Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"RAWALPINDI: Two shopkeepers were booked by the police for allegedly resisting the dengue inspection team and threatening its members in the Morgah area on Thursday. Syed Nayyar Abbas, a resident of Al-Noor Colony Khanna Pul, lodged an FIR with the Morgah police against the accused shopkeepers. The incident occurred when a dengue team comprising Ahsan Mahmood and Owais Ali, sanitary patrol workers, visited a confectionery shop during a routine inspection.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034058/two-shopkeepers-booked-for-hurling-threats-at-dengue-inspection-team-in-rawalpindi","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f7655f74144a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:46:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IOWA","what":"Iowa lawmakers to vote on raising tax incentive cap for a $15B steel plant","headline":"Iowa lawmakers will vote on raising the tax incentive cap for a 15 billion dollar steel plant, October 2 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ABC News · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Iowa lawmakers to vote on raising tax incentive cap for a $15B steel plant","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Business/wireStory/iowa-lawmakers-vote-raising-tax-incentive-cap-15b-136940424","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fc53350a712f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:42:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DAEJEON","what":"Gov't unveils disaster recovery measures for state data centers","headline":"South Korea unveiled disaster recovery measures for state data centers one year after a fire in Daejeon","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 2 (Yonhap) -- One year after a devastating fire at a key state data ...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002004400315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4b609e07080e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:39:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"A breakdown of Taiwan's F-16V purchase, as first two jets arrive","headline":"United States delivered the first two of 66 F-16V fighter jets Taiwan bought to a Taitung County air base on Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 2 (CNA) Taiwan took delivery of the first two of the 66 F-16V Block 70 fighter jets Taiwan purchased from the United States after they arrived at an eastern Taitung County air base Friday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610020008","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610020006","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"52a8abc0f95e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:38:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Säsongens första för Mika Zibanejad – och målvakten Igor Sjestiorkin","headline":"Mika Zibanejad and goaltender Igor Shesterkin both score their first goals of the season","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Mika Zibanejad står efter 5–1 mot Tampa Bay numera på ett mål den här säsongen.","quote":"Alla bara hoppade på mig, det var otroligt","quote_en":"Everyone just jumped on me, it was incredible","context":"Mika Zibanejad står efter 5–1 mot Tampa Bay numera på ett mål den här säsongen. Det gör även målvakten Igor Sjestiorkin – som slog till med karriärens första fullträff. – Alla bara hoppade på mig, det var otroligt, säger han.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Mika Zibanejad now has one goal this season after the 5-1 win against Tampa Bay. Goaltender Igor Shesterkin also scored his first career goal.","context_en":"Mika Zibanejad now has one goal this season after the 5-1 win against Tampa Bay. Goaltender Igor Shesterkin also scored his first career goal.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/sport/ishockey/sasongens-forsta-for-mika-zibanejad-och-malvakten-igor-shesterkin","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b1362d8c1429","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:38:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UMEÅ","what":"Ladugård totalförstörd i brand i Umeå","headline":"Barn completely destroyed in fire in Umeå","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En ladugård började brinna vid Degersjön i Umeå kommun natten till fredag.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"En ladugård började brinna vid Degersjön i Umeå kommun natten till fredag. Ladan var övertänd när räddningstjänsten kom fram – och fick brinna ner till grunden.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A barn caught fire at Degersjön in Umeå municipality during the night to Friday. The building was fully engulfed when firefighters arrived and was allowed to burn to the ground.","context_en":"A barn caught fire at Degersjön in Umeå municipality during the night to Friday. The building was fully engulfed when firefighters arrived and was allowed to burn to the ground.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/ladugard-totalforstord-i-brand-i-umea","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3545d7634f42","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VOLGOGRAD","what":"Drones attack Russia's Volgograd: fires reported near oil refinery and chemical plant – video","headline":"Drones struck Russia's Volgograd overnight and fires broke out near its oil refinery and the Kaustik chemical plant","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Explosions were heard in Volgograd overnight, while the glow from a fire was seen near the Volgograd oil refinery and Kaustik chemical plant.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Explosions were heard in Volgograd overnight, while the glow from a fire was seen near the Volgograd oil refinery and Kaustik chemical plant. The cause of the fire remains unclear.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056068/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a5ab45db36fc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:37:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTH KIVU","what":"L’ONG CFDD-RDC alerte sur des violations des droits humains liées à l’exploitation minière à Rubaya","headline":"ONG CFDD-RDC alerts on human rights violations linked to mining in Rubaya","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"L’ONG Conscience féminine pour les droits et le développement (CFDD-RDC) alerte sur de graves violations des droits humains qu’elle dit avoir documentées autour des activités minières à Rubaya, dans le territoire de M…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"L’ONG Conscience féminine pour les droits et le développement (CFDD-RDC) alerte sur de graves violations des droits humains qu’elle dit avoir documentées autour des activités minières à Rubaya, dans le territoire de Masisi, au Nord-Kivu.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The NGO Conscience féminine pour les droits et le développement (CFDD-RDC) is alerting on serious human rights violations that it says it has documented around mining activities in Rubaya, in the Masisi territory, North Kivu.","context_en":"The NGO Conscience féminine pour les droits et le développement (CFDD-RDC) is alerting on serious human rights violations that it says it has documented around mining activities in Rubaya, in the Masisi territory, North Kivu.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/02/actualite/societe/long-cfdd-rdc-alerte-sur-des-violations-des-droits-humains-liees","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2b5595404a5f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:34:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Sanctioned ICC head’s former students demand action from Tokyo","headline":"Former students of sanctioned ICC chief Karim Khan submitted a 170000-signature petition to Japanese official Masanao Ozaki in Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A petition with 170,000 signatures has been submitted to Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Masanao Ozaki.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A petition with 170,000 signatures has been submitted to Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Masanao Ozaki.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/02/japan/akane-icc-ex-students-petition/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2c459ae9a4f9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:33:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIMA","what":"Ministro Luis Dyer supervisó avances tecnológicos en tres grandes hospitales de la capital","headline":"Health Minister Luis Dyer oversaw technological advances in three major hospitals in the capital","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La transformación digital continúa avanzando en los establecimientos del Ministerio de Salud (Minsa), por ello, el ministro de Salud, Luis Dyer verificó la implementación de estas herramientas digitales que facilitan…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La transformación digital continúa avanzando en los establecimientos del Ministerio de Salud (Minsa), por ello, el ministro de Salud, Luis Dyer verificó la implementación de estas herramientas digitales que facilitan el acceso a citas, el seguimiento de referencias, las de historias clínicas electrónicas y la entrega de medicamentos.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The digital transformation continues to advance in the facilities of the Ministry of Health (Minsa), which is why Health Minister Luis Dyer verified the implementation of these digital tools that facilitate access to appointments, the tracking of referrals, electronic medical records and the delivery of medicines.","context_en":"The digital transformation continues to advance in the facilities of the Ministry of Health (Minsa), which is why Health Minister Luis Dyer verified the implementation of these digital tools that facilitate access to appointments, the tracking of referrals, electronic medical records and the delivery of medicines.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ministro-luis-dyer-superviso-avances-tecnologicos-tres-grandes-hospitales-de-capital-1094243.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9ca2927a7f80","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:32:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MURREE","what":"Petrol can, smoking blamed for Murree school van fire","headline":"A school van driver in Murree, Pakistan started a fire with a petrol can and cigarette on Tuesday and injured 12 children, one of whom died the next day","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"RAWALPINDI: A school van driver had placed a can of petrol under a seat and lit a cigarette while driving the vehicle when it suddenly caught fire in Murree on Tuesday, leaving 12 schoolchildren injured.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"RAWALPINDI: A school van driver had placed a can of petrol under a seat and lit a cigarette while driving the vehicle when it suddenly caught fire in Murree on Tuesday, leaving 12 schoolchildren injured. One of the injured children died on Wednesday. Commercial vehicles in Punjab required a vehicle fitness certificate which the school van driver did not have. The vehicle fitness certificate is valid for six months for commercial and public service vehicles, requiring reinspection twice a year.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034060/petrol-can-smoking-blamed-for-murree-school-van-fire","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"504487f6ae12","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:32:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CORONEL","what":"Detienen a exgendarme de 24 años por balacera que dejó un muerto y dos heridos graves en Coronel","headline":"24-year-old ex-prison guard arrested for shooting that left one dead and two seriously wounded in Coronel","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un , región del Bío Bío.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un , región del Bío Bío. Según información obtenida por BioBioChile, fueron detectives de la Policía de Investigaciones (PDI) de la Brigada de Homicidios (BH) Concepción quienes aprehendieron al individuo, de 24 años. Cabe recordar que el crimen en cuestión, un homicidio y doble homicidio frustrado, ocurrió el pasado sábado en el sector Playa Blanca … Continua leyendo \"Detienen a exgendarme de 24 años por balacera que dejó un muerto y dos heridos graves en Coronel\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Detectives from the PDI's Homicide Brigade in Concepción arrested a 24-year-old man, a former prison guard, for a shooting that occurred last Saturday in the Playa Blanca sector of Coronel, Bío Bío region. The incident is classified as a homicide and a double attempted homicide.","context_en":"Detectives from the PDI's Homicide Brigade in Concepción arrested a 24-year-old man, a former prison guard, for a shooting that occurred last Saturday in the Playa Blanca sector of Coronel, Bío Bío region. The incident is classified as a homicide and a double attempted homicide.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BioBioChile","url":"https://www.biobiochile.cl/noticias/nacional/region-del-bio-bio/2026/10/02/detienen-a-exgendarme-de-24-anos-por-balacera-que-dejo-un-muerto-y-dos-heridos-graves-en-coronel.shtml","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"RPP","url":"https://rpp.pe/peru/piura/un-sicario-asesina-a-balazos-a-un-hombre-tras-perseguirlo-en-sullana-piura-noticia-1710425","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"44a13e90a034","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:31:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PETONE","what":"Fire destroys Apparelmaster warehouse in Petone","headline":"Fire destroyed the Apparelmaster warehouse in Petone, New Zealand, in 2021, and a station closure has slowed response times since then","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NZPFU says a station closure since 2021 is still slowing response times in Petone.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NZPFU says a station closure since 2021 is still slowing response times in Petone.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1678664/fire-destroys-apparelmaster-warehouse-in-petone","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"21f20daf2aac","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:30:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"APIA","what":"Media watchdog demands answers after Samoan PM's security reportedly deletes journalist's photos","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Journalists Association of Samoa is demanding answers over the removal of a journalist's camera and the deletion of photographs taken while she was covering a public event.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Journalists Association of Samoa is demanding answers over the removal of a journalist's camera and the deletion of photographs taken while she was covering a public event.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.4901},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/pacific/1683672/media-watchdog-demands-answers-after-samoan-pm-s-security-reportedly-deletes-journalist-s-photos","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6549e124628a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:25:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"YUCATAN","what":"Detienen a dos involucrados en caso “La Concordia”; se les señala por extorsión agravada","headline":"Two arrested in 'La Concordia' case; charged with aggravated extortion","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Mérida, Yucatán.-Tras una labor coordinada, elementos de la Policía Estatal de Investigación ( PEI ) de la Secretaría de Seguridad Pública y la Fiscalía General del Estado ( FGE ) detuvieron mediante una orden de apre…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Mérida, Yucatán.-Tras una labor coordinada, elementos de la Policía Estatal de Investigación ( PEI ) de la Secretaría de Seguridad Pública y la Fiscalía General del Estado ( FGE ) detuvieron mediante una orden de aprehensión, a José Esteban S.B . y Karen Odeth B.L. , quienes fueron puestos a disposición de las autoridades judiciales, donde fueron imputados por el delito de extorsión agravada , tras su presunta participación como parte de la asociación denominada “ La Concordia ”, en perjuicio de comerciantes de esta capital, por lo que permanecerán bajo prisión preventiva.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Mérida, Yucatán.- After coordinated work, elements of the State Investigation Police (PEI) of the Secretariat of Public Security and the Attorney General's Office (FGE) arrested José Esteban S.B. and Karen Odeth B.L. by means of an arrest warrant. They were placed at the disposal of judicial authorities, where they were charged with the crime of aggravated extortion for their alleged","context_en":"Mérida, Yucatán.- After coordinated work, elements of the State Investigation Police (PEI) of the Secretariat of Public Security and the Attorney General's Office (FGE) arrested José Esteban S.B. and Karen Odeth B.L. by means of an arrest warrant. They were placed at the disposal of judicial authorities, where they were charged with the crime of aggravated extortion for their alleged","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/estados/detienen-a-dos-involucrados-en-caso-la-concordia-se-les-senala-por-extorsion-agravada/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0e1c22c391aa","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:17:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Kyiv closes Pivdennyi and Paton bridges after Russian attack, restricts traffic on Metro Bridge","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kyiv authorities have closed the Pivdennyi and Paton bridges in both directions and restricted traffic towards the right bank on Metro Bridge following the Russian attack on 2 October.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kyiv authorities have closed the Pivdennyi and Paton bridges in both directions and restricted traffic towards the right bank on Metro Bridge following the Russian attack on 2 October.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056065/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/mundo/2026/10/02/rusia-lanzo-un-nuevo-ataque-contra-kiev-y-volvio-a-atacar-un-puente-clave-de-ucrania-al-menos-un-muerto-y-dos-heridos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20261002-live-russia-hits-kyiv-s-southern-bridge-as-moscow-continues-to-pound-capital","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056063/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056045/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c177bc4fcc7c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:13:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HOKKAIDO","what":"Mt. Asahidake in Hokkaido gets 1st snowcap of season","headline":"Mt Asahidake in Hokkaido got its first snowcap of the season on Japan's northernmost main island","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The season's first snowcap was confirmed on Mt.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The season's first snowcap was confirmed on Mt. Asahidake, the highest peak on Japan's northernmost main island of Hokkaid Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86992","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"f4495c3859c0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:09:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAUT-KATANGA","what":"24 ONG alertent sur l’impact des activités minières dans le parc national de l’Upemba","headline":"24 NGOs warn of impact of mining activities in Upemba National Park","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Vingt-quatre organisations de la société civile et associations environnementales alertent sur la dégradation des écosystèmes du parc national de l’Upemba, situé à l’intersection des provinces du Haut-Katanga, du Lual…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Vingt-quatre organisations de la société civile et associations environnementales alertent sur la dégradation des écosystèmes du parc national de l’Upemba, situé à l’intersection des provinces du Haut-Katanga, du Lualaba et du Haut-Lomami.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Twenty-four civil society organizations and environmental associations are alerting on the degradation of ecosystems in Upemba National Park, located at the intersection of the provinces of Haut-Katanga, Lualaba and Haut-Lomami.","context_en":"Twenty-four civil society organizations and environmental associations are alerting on the degradation of ecosystems in Upemba National Park, located at the intersection of the provinces of Haut-Katanga, Lualaba and Haut-Lomami.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/02/actualite/environnement/24-ong-alertent-sur-limpact-des-activites-minieres-dans-le-parc","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6cbf3cc612ea","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:08:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHLAND","what":"Shop owner relieved Northland road re-opening after 'hell on wheels' closure","headline":"A Northland New Zealand shop owner felt relief when Russell Road reopened after a January landslide closed it for months","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A massive landslide buried Russell Road under almost 100,000 cubic metres of soil, boulders and trees after a week of heavy rain in January.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A massive landslide buried Russell Road under almost 100,000 cubic metres of soil, boulders and trees after a week of heavy rain in January.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/weather/1680596/shop-owner-relieved-northland-road-re-opening-after-hell-on-wheels-closure","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"87cc13d1427e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:03:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Roosters blow as Watson ruled out of NRL grand final","headline":"Connor Watson will miss the NRL grand final for the Sydney Roosters in Australia after failing to clear a concussion test","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Roosters hooker Connor Watson will miss the NRL grand final after failing to get clearance to play following a concussion suffered in the preliminary final victory against the Dolphins.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Roosters hooker Connor Watson will miss the NRL grand final after failing to get clearance to play following a concussion suffered in the preliminary final victory against the Dolphins.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/roosters-connor-watson-out-of-nrl-grand-final/107221782","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9d0530233499","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T04:01:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEPAL","what":"Rains Swamp the Gandak River","headline":"India rains raised the Gandak River to record levels in Nepal and India","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"After days of torrential rain, the river rose to record-breaking levels in parts of Nepal and India.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"After days of torrential rain, the river rose to record-breaking levels in parts of Nepal and India.","summary":"Torrential rain fell on Nepal from September 24 to 27. It caused landslides and pushed the Gandak River also called the Narayani to its highest mark since the 1960s at Devghat. The flood broke embankments and covered farmland and villages for hundreds of kilometers in both Nepal and India. News reports said it displaced thousands of people.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$d","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://science.nasa.gov/earth/earth-observatory/rains-swamp-the-gandak-river/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fd13608f7fa4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:58:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"Auckland early learning centre closes over asbestos fears in rangoli powder","headline":"An Auckland early learning centre in New Zealand closed after fears that rangoli powder contained asbestos","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Auckland early learning service has temporarily closed after alerting authorities to potentially asbestos-contaminated rangoli powder.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Auckland early learning service has temporarily closed after alerting authorities to potentially asbestos-contaminated rangoli powder.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/education/1685326/auckland-early-learning-centre-closes-over-asbestos-fears-in-rangoli-powder","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"44348574d6c1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:50:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FUKUSHIMA","what":"TEPCO begins inserting robot arm to retrieve Fukushima nuke fuel debris","headline":"Tokyo Electric Power Co. began inserting a robot arm into the Fukushima reactor in Japan on Friday to retrieve nuclear fuel debris","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tokyo Electric Power Co.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tokyo Electric Power Co. Holdings Inc. began work Friday to insert a remote-controlled robotic arm into the containment vessel of Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/02/japan/tepco-investigation-start/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86988","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"b262a84baab1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:49:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"Georgia diner calls 911 to try to dodge $63 Red Lobster bill, cops say","headline":"Abdul Rasheed called 911 to report a medical emergency at a Georgia Red Lobster so he could skip his $63 bill, police said on Sept. 24","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Abdul Rasheed, 26, wound up essentially calling cops on himself on Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Abdul Rasheed, 26, wound up essentially calling cops on himself on Sept. 24 when he tried to skip out on his $63 bill at the seafood joint by reporting a medical emergency to 911.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/georgia-diner-calls-911-to-try-to-dodge-63-red-lobster-bill-cops-say/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1d59bc71d99a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:49:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Jewish groups hail California law making it the first state to list ‘Jewish’ as an ethnicity","headline":"Jews backed a California law that made the state the first to list Jewish as an ethnicity","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Also on Wednesday, Newsom approved AB 1763, which will include religious holiday observance as a type of excused absence in schools without requiring a written request from a parent or guardian.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Also on Wednesday, Newsom approved AB 1763, which will include religious holiday observance as a type of excused absence in schools without requiring a written request from a parent or guardian.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"religion","sim":0.3488},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$e","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/diaspora/article-910392","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBN News","url":"http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2026/september/effectively-sharia-law-newsom-signs-law-prioritizing-muslim-state-holidays","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/as-jewish-holiday-bills-await-newsom-signs-legislation-about-muslim-eid-holiday","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e84f21c25c2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:49:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Russia loses 1,520 soldiers and 37 artillery systems over past day","headline":"Russian forces lost 1520 soldiers and 37 artillery systems in Ukraine in one day","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ukraine's General Staff has updated data on Russian losses: Russia lost 1,520 soldiers killed and wounded over the past day.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukraine's General Staff has updated data on Russian losses: Russia lost 1,520 soldiers killed and wounded over the past day.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056064/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"deb92c0a1008","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:47:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VILLA EL SALVADOR","what":"Sedapal atiende aniego en Villa El Salvador y activa póliza para tratar daños materiales","headline":"Sedapal attends to flood in Villa El Salvador and activates policy for material damages","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima ( Sedapal S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Lima ( Sedapal S. A) informó esta noche que una cuadrilla técnica de la empresa está atendiendo el aniego reportado en el A.H. Príncipe de Asturias, en el distrito de Villa El Salvador.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Lima Drinking Water and Sewerage Service (Sedapal S.A.) reported tonight that a technical crew from the company is attending to the flood reported in the A.H. Príncipe de Asturias, in the Villa El Salvador district.","context_en":"The Lima Drinking Water and Sewerage Service (Sedapal S.A.) reported tonight that a technical crew from the company is attending to the flood reported in the A.H. Príncipe de Asturias, in the Villa El Salvador district.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-sedapal-atiende-aniego-villa-salvador-y-activa-poliza-para-tratar-danos-materiales-1094240.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ebb44bbb4667","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:46:44.552Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Ukraine deploys FP-7 tactical ballistic missile in combat for first time, Zelenskiy says","headline":"Ukraine used an FP-7 tactical ballistic missile in combat for the first time against Russia, Zelenskiy said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukraine deploys FP-7 tactical ballistic missile in combat for first time, Zelenskiy says","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/world-news/ukraine-debuts-new-self-made-fp-7-ballistic-missiles-in-strikes-against-russia-zelensky/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/ukraine-deploys-fp-7-tactical-ballistic-missile-combat-first-time-zelenskiy-says-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2764f8d65cd5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:46:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"DNC sues Trump admin over voting change for Americans abroad","headline":"The DNC sued the Trump administration over a change to overseas voting rules for Americans","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New York Post · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"DNC sues Trump admin over voting change for Americans abroad","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/dnc-sues-trump-admin-over-voting-change-for-americans-abroad/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/live/2026/10/01/us/midterms-elections/dnc-sues-the-defense-department-over-changes-to-a-form-for-overseas-voters","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"f509e424c364","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAGOYA","what":"Singapore's Darren Yap clinches virtual taekwondo bronze at Asian Games","headline":"Singapore's Darren Yap won virtual taekwondo bronze at the Asian Games in Japan, his second medal after Thursday's poomsae bronze","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"This is Yap's second Games medal, after his joint-bronze in the men's individual poomsae on Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"This is Yap's second Games medal, after his joint-bronze in the men's individual poomsae on Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/sport/darren-yap-virtual-taekwondo-asian-games-6425901","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"99bb1e9bf1c6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:43:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"ERM 2026: Sepa cuántas autoridades serán elegidas este 4 de octubre","headline":"ERM 2026: Find out how many authorities will be elected on October 4","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El domingo 4 de octubre más de 26 millones de electores participarán en las Elecciones Regionales y Municipales 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El domingo 4 de octubre más de 26 millones de electores participarán en las Elecciones Regionales y Municipales 2026. Conozca aquí cuántas autoridades serán elegidas en este proceso electoral.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"On Sunday, October 4, more than 26 million voters will take part in the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections. Find out here how many authorities will be elected in this electoral process.","context_en":"On Sunday, October 4, more than 26 million voters will take part in the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections. Find out here how many authorities will be elected in this electoral process.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-erm-2026-sepa-cuantas-autoridades-seran-elegidas-este-4-octubre-1090388.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2fadd1ca9fe2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:42:47.138Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TURKEY","what":"Syrian government officials and Hezbollah held secret talks in Turkey, sources say","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Syrian government officials and Hezbollah held secret talks in Turkey, sources say","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/syrian-government-officials-hezbollah-held-secret-talks-turkey-sources-say-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a3e65d7aa956","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:40:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JOHOR","what":"Singaporeans among more than 1,000 foreigners caught in Johor for traffic offences over 4 months","headline":"Police in Malaysia's Johor caught more than 1,000 foreigners including Singaporeans for traffic offences in four months","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Offences include operating vehicles without a valid licence, road tax, or insurance, as well as failing to wear a helmet.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Offences include operating vehicles without a valid licence, road tax, or insurance, as well as failing to wear a helmet.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/singaporeans-among-more-than-1000-foreigners-caught-in-johor-for-traffic-offences-over-4-months","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a81ab02e13dc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:33:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH KOREA","what":"President Z-Korea waarschuwt Oekraïne: excuses, anders komen er 'maatregelen'","headline":"South Korean president warns Ukraine: apologize or face 'measures'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Zuid-Koreaanse president Lee Jae Myung heeft de Oekraïense regering gewaarschuwd om snel met excuses te komen voor het voorval met de twee Noord-Koreaanse krijgsgevangenen, die vorige week door Oekraïne werden uitg…","quote":"Dit raakt de eer van de Koreaanse bevolking en hun land","quote_en":"This touches the honor of the Korean people and their country","context":"De Zuid-Koreaanse president Lee Jae Myung heeft de Oekraïense regering gewaarschuwd om snel met excuses te komen voor het voorval met de twee Noord-Koreaanse krijgsgevangenen, die vorige week door Oekraïne werden uitgeleverd aan Zuid-Korea. De Oekraïense president Zelensky maakte die uitlevering openbaar, tot woede van de Zuid-Koreanen : die beweren dat er een afspraak tot geheimhouding bestond tussen de twee landen. Zuid-Korea probeert de dialoog te hervatten met de noorderburen, dus de uitlevering van krijgsgevangenen ligt gevoelig.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"South Korean President Lee Jae-myung has warned the Ukrainian government to quickly apologize for the incident involving two North Korean prisoners of war who were handed over to South Korea by Ukraine last week. Ukrainian President Zelensky made the handover public, angering the South Koreans who say there was an agreement between the two countries to keep it secret. South Korea is trying to","context_en":"South Korean President Lee Jae-myung has warned the Ukrainian government to quickly apologize for the incident involving two North Korean prisoners of war who were handed over to South Korea by Ukraine last week. Ukrainian President Zelensky made the handover public, angering the South Koreans who say there was an agreement between the two countries to keep it secret. South Korea is trying to","lang":"nl","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/south-koreas-lee-threatens-action-against-ukraine-over-transfer-of-north-korean-soldiers","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633357","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8f33ed936cfc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:32:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MANAWATŪ","what":"Fire truck rolls on way to Manawatū blaze, three firefighters injured","headline":"A fire truck rolled on the way to a Manawatū blaze in New Zealand and three firefighters were injured, two of them taken to hospital","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two of the firefighters were taken to hospital.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two of the firefighters were taken to hospital.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1684847/fire-truck-rolls-on-way-to-manawatu-blaze-three-firefighters-injured","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"071e34d17c72","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:30:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"EU ha revocado más de 250 mil visas bajo el mando de Trump, reportan; medida es parte de campaña contra migración","headline":"US has revoked more than 250,000 visas under Trump, reports say; measure is part of anti-migration campaign","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"Es un hito histórico que refleja nuestro firme compromiso con la protección del pueblo estadounidense\", declaró Tommy Pigott, portavoz del Departamento de Estado de EU","quote":"Es un hito histórico que refleja nuestro firme compromiso con la protección del pueblo estadounidense","quote_en":"It is a historic milestone that reflects our firm commitment to protecting the American people","context":"\"Es un hito histórico que refleja nuestro firme compromiso con la protección del pueblo estadounidense\", declaró Tommy Pigott, portavoz del Departamento de Estado de EU","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"It is a historic milestone that reflects our firm commitment to protecting the American people.","context_en":"It is a historic milestone that reflects our firm commitment to protecting the American people.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/mundo/eu-ha-revocado-mas-de-250-mil-visas-bajo-el-mando-de-trump-reportan-medida-es-parte-de-campana-contra-migracion/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ef6c2cd144af","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:30:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Diputada local de MC impulsa crear protocolo de atención para animales lesionados en hechos de tránsito; buscan establecer ruta homologada","headline":"Local MC deputy pushes to create care protocol for animals injured in traffic incidents; seeks standardized route","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Estamos proponiendo que no se abandone a ningún ser sintiente lesionado, explicó la legisladora","quote":"Estamos proponiendo que no se abandone a ningún ser sintiente lesionado","quote_en":"We are proposing that no sentient being injured be abandoned","context":"Estamos proponiendo que no se abandone a ningún ser sintiente lesionado, explicó la legisladora","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"We are proposing that no sentient being injured be abandoned, explained the legislator.","context_en":"We are proposing that no sentient being injured be abandoned, explained the legislator.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/diputada-local-de-mc-impulsa-crear-protocolo-de-atencion-para-animales-lesionados-en-hechos-de-transito-buscan-establecer-ruta-homologada/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9ae9c82de44d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:30:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SWEDEN","what":"Viltolyckorna ökar: Thomas i Vännäs blev eftersöksjägare efter älgkrock","headline":"Wildlife accidents on the rise: Thomas in Vännäs became a tracking hunter after moose collision","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Viltolyckorna ökar i Sverige.","quote":"Det är en puckel på gång. En bilist såg 20 älgar på en bilsträcka för några dagar sedan","quote_en":"There is a hump coming. A motorist saw 20 moose on a stretch of road a few days ago.","context":"Viltolyckorna ökar i Sverige. Fram till sista augusti ökade olyckorna med fem procent och med höstens intåg väntar den mest riskfyllda perioden i trafiken. – Det är en puckel på gång. En bilist såg 20 älgar på en bilsträcka för några dagar sedan, säger Vännäsbon Thomas Björnudd, som blev eftersöksjägare efter att han själv kört på en älg.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Wildlife accidents are increasing in Sweden. Up until the end of August, the accidents had increased by five percent and with autumn's arrival, the most risky period in traffic is expected.","context_en":"Wildlife accidents are increasing in Sweden. Up until the end of August, the accidents had increased by five percent and with autumn's arrival, the most risky period in traffic is expected.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/viltolyckorna-okar-thomas-i-vannas-blev-eftersoksjagare-efter-algkrock","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b9b424813f0a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:30:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Kimberleys nålfobi missades på förlossningen – fick PTSD: ”Jag skrek och grät”","headline":"Kimberley's needle phobia missed during childbirth – developed PTSD: 'I screamed and cried'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kimberley Vestermark, 30, fick PTSD efter förlossningen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kimberley Vestermark, 30, fick PTSD efter förlossningen. Trots att hennes nålfobi fanns dokumenterad i både journal och förlossningsbrev uppger hon att personalen fortsatte att sy hennes bristning trots att hon sa nej. Samma dag registrerades en avvikelse om hög arbetsbelastning på förlossningen. Nu har hon anmält händelsen till IVO.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Kimberley Vestermark, 30, developed PTSD after childbirth. Although her needle phobia was documented in both her medical record and birth plan, she says staff continued to stitch her tear despite her saying no. The same day a deviation for high workload was registered in the maternity ward. She has now reported the incident to IVO.","context_en":"Kimberley Vestermark, 30, developed PTSD after childbirth. Although her needle phobia was documented in both her medical record and birth plan, she says staff continued to stitch her tear despite her saying no. The same day a deviation for high workload was registered in the maternity ward. She has now reported the incident to IVO.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vastmanland/kimberleys-nalfobi-missades-pa-forlossningen-fick-ptsd-jag-skrek-och-grat","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"022ec5d3f1ed","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:29:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COLOMBIA","what":"Notorious alleged WA drug kingpin 'The Kid' arrested in Colombia","headline":"Iranian Arash Ebrahimi Far, alleged WA drug kingpin known as The Kid, was arrested in Colombia after he left hospital with a gunshot wound","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Australian-Iranian national Arash Ebrahimi Far is arrested in Colombia while leaving hospital after being \"wounded by gunfire\".","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Australian-Iranian national Arash Ebrahimi Far is arrested in Colombia while leaving hospital after being \"wounded by gunfire\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/alleged-drug-kingpin-arash-ebrahimi-far-arrested-in-colombia/107221142","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c0390ca3b80f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:29:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINALOA","what":"Aseguran ocho vehículos en bodega de Guasave, Sinaloa; tenían reporte de robo y blindaje artesanal","headline":"Eight vehicles seized in Guasave, Sinaloa warehouse; they had theft reports and homemade armor","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Además, agentes de la policía estatal y del Ejército mexicano aseguraron cargadores y cartuchos","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Además, agentes de la policía estatal y del Ejército mexicano aseguraron cargadores y cartuchos","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"State police and Mexican Army agents seized eight vehicles in a warehouse in Guasave, Sinaloa. The vehicles had theft reports and artisanal armor. In addition, agents seized chargers and cartridges.","context_en":"State police and Mexican Army agents seized eight vehicles in a warehouse in Guasave, Sinaloa. The vehicles had theft reports and artisanal armor. In addition, agents seized chargers and cartridges.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/aseguran-ocho-vehiculos-en-bodega-de-guasave-sinaloa-tenian-reporte-de-robo-y-blindaje-artesanal/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e534ac9a1a95","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:29:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COAHUILA","what":"SNTE condena ataque en secundaria de Torreón, Coahuila; llama a evitar violencia en el entorno escolar","headline":"SNTE condemns attack at Torreón secondary school in Coahuila; calls to prevent violence in school environments","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Durante la LXI sesión extraordinaria se guardó un minuto de silencio en memoria de la subdirectora, quien falleció","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Durante la LXI sesión extraordinaria se guardó un minuto de silencio en memoria de la subdirectora, quien falleció","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"During the 61st extraordinary session a minute of silence was observed in memory of the assistant principal, who died.","context_en":"During the 61st extraordinary session a minute of silence was observed in memory of the assistant principal, who died.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/snte-condena-ataque-en-secundaria-de-torreon-coahuila-llama-a-evitar-violencia-en-el-entorno-escolar/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f9625e7497e7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:29:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"Capt Safdar moves Judicial Commission of Pakistan over Bhoon’s law degree","headline":"Retired Capt Muhammad Safdar asked Pakistan's Judicial Commission to verify JCP member Muhammad Ahsan Bhoon's law degree","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: Former member of the National Assembly retired Capt Muhammad Safdar has filed a complaint with the Judicial Commission of Pakistan (JCP), seeking urgent verification of the educational qualifications, enrol…","quote":"may not be genuine and may be fake, bogus or otherwise incapable of lawful verification","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: Former member of the National Assembly retired Capt Muhammad Safdar has filed a complaint with the Judicial Commission of Pakistan (JCP), seeking urgent verification of the educational qualifications, enrolment and professional credentials of JCP member Muhammad Ahsan Bhoon. The complaint, addressed to the JCP secretary for placement before the chairperson and members, alleges that the law degree on the basis of which Bhoon entered the legal profession “may not be genuine and may be fake, bogus or otherwise incapable of lawful verification”.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034126/capt-safdar-moves-judicial-commission-of-pakistan-over-bhoons-law-degree","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"04590bcdc467","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:28:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAMILTON","what":"One man critically injured after incident in central Hamilton","headline":"One man was critically injured in an incident in central Hamilton, New Zealand, and taken to hospital while another man was arrested","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The man has been taken to hospital, with another arrested following the incident.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The man has been taken to hospital, with another arrested following the incident.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1684615/one-man-critically-injured-after-incident-in-central-hamilton","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7684d3e6c258","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:24:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"Military stages full-scale National Day flyover rehearsal in Taipei","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 2 (CNA) Taiwan's military conducted a full-scale National Day flyover rehearsal over Taipei on Friday, culminating in a display by five Brave Eagle advanced jet trainers trailing red, blue and white smoke over the Presidential Office.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610020005","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"937a5bcbc46a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:23:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"New crew makes the quickest US flight to ISS","headline":"SpaceX crew reached ISS from Florida in record 7 hours 55 minutes","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The SpaceX spacecraft carrying the Crew-13 team docked with the International Space Station in 7 hours and 55 minutes, setting a new record.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The SpaceX spacecraft carrying the Crew-13 team docked with the International Space Station in 7 hours and 55 minutes, setting a new record.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$f","sources":[{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/new-crew-makes-the-quickest-us-flight-to-iss/a-79509556?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633369","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Tagesschau","url":"https://www.tagesschau.de/ausland/amerika/iss-crew-im-all-angekommen-100.html","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"74a21667196b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:22:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"FBI arrests former DOE employee for allegedly providing materials, expert assistance to Houthis","headline":"FBI arrested former Energy Department employee Ellaboudy in Washington for allegedly giving materials and expert help to the Houthis","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"According to the criminal complaint, in December 2024, Ellaboudy took sick leave, claiming exposure to highly concentrated nitric acid, a common chemical used in the construction of explosives.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"According to the criminal complaint, in December 2024, Ellaboudy took sick leave, claiming exposure to highly concentrated nitric acid, a common chemical used in the construction of explosives.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910390","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"70a466d73498","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:22:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Congreso articulará con el Ejecutivo para garantizar obras de prevención por El Niño","headline":"Congress to coordinate with Executive to guarantee El Niño prevention works","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El presidente del Congreso, Miguel Torres, sostuvo que desde ese poder del Estado, se continuarán impulsando acciones de fiscalización y articulación con el Ejecutivo para garantizar que los trabajos preventivos se ej…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El presidente del Congreso, Miguel Torres, sostuvo que desde ese poder del Estado, se continuarán impulsando acciones de fiscalización y articulación con el Ejecutivo para garantizar que los trabajos preventivos se ejecuten de manera oportuna y eficiente, en salvaguarda de la vida y el patrimonio de miles de familias.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Congress President Miguel Torres said that from that branch of government, actions of oversight and coordination with the Executive will continue to be promoted to ensure that preventive works are carried out in a timely and efficient manner, safeguarding the lives and property of thousands of families.","context_en":"Congress President Miguel Torres said that from that branch of government, actions of oversight and coordination with the Executive will continue to be promoted to ensure that preventive works are carried out in a timely and efficient manner, safeguarding the lives and property of thousands of families.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-congreso-articulara-con-ejecutivo-para-garantizar-obras-prevencion-por-nino-1094232.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0ecb22e906ac","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:19:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO CITY","what":"A horas de la marcha del 2 de octubre, edificios del Centro y Reforma se protegen con vallas; locatarios no recuerdan un despliegue similar","headline":"Hours before the October 2 march, buildings in Centro and Reforma are protected with barriers; merchants do not recall","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Según trabajadores las protecciones comenzaron a colocarse desde el fin de semana pasado","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Según trabajadores las protecciones comenzaron a colocarse desde el fin de semana pasado","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"According to workers, the protections began to be installed since last weekend.","context_en":"According to workers, the protections began to be installed since last weekend.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/a-horas-de-la-marcha-del-2-de-octubre-edificios-del-centro-y-reforma-se-protegen-con-vallas-locatarios-no-recuerdan-un-despliegue-similar/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"39ec52f97274","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:19:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PUNO","what":"MTC garantiza mantenimiento de carretera Checca-Mazocruz mientras se destraba ejecución","headline":"MTC guarantees maintenance of Checca-Mazocruz road while unblocking project execution","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones (MTC) garantizará el mantenimiento continuo de los 73 kilómetros de la carretera Checca-Mazocruz, en la provincia de El Collao, región Puno, mientras se trabaja para super…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones (MTC) garantizará el mantenimiento continuo de los 73 kilómetros de la carretera Checca-Mazocruz, en la provincia de El Collao, región Puno, mientras se trabaja para superar los procesos judiciales y arbitrales que impiden iniciar la ejecución del proyecto de mejoramiento de esta vía.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) will guarantee continuous maintenance of the 73 kilometers of the Checca-Mazocruz road, in the province of El Collao, Puno region, while working to overcome the judicial and arbitration processes that prevent starting the execution of the road improvement project.","context_en":"The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) will guarantee continuous maintenance of the 73 kilometers of the Checca-Mazocruz road, in the province of El Collao, Puno region, while working to overcome the judicial and arbitration processes that prevent starting the execution of the road improvement project.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-mtc-garantiza-mantenimiento-carretera-checcamazocruz-mientras-se-destraba-ejecucion-1094234.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"346f58a8bdbf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:17:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Ministro de Vivienda Arnillas dialoga con el Banco Mundial sobre agua y saneamiento","headline":"Housing Minister Arnillas meets with World Bank on water and sanitation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ministro de Vivienda, Construcción y Saneamiento, Mauricio Arnillas, se reunió con representantes del Banco Mundial, con quienes abordó los proyectos de agua y saneamiento que se desarrollan en el país, así como la…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El ministro de Vivienda, Construcción y Saneamiento, Mauricio Arnillas, se reunió con representantes del Banco Mundial, con quienes abordó los proyectos de agua y saneamiento que se desarrollan en el país, así como la presentación de una propuesta de un nuevo modelo de vivienda social formal y adecuada.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Housing, Construction and Sanitation Minister Mauricio Arnillas met with World Bank representatives, with whom he discussed water and sanitation projects being developed in the country as well as the presentation of a proposal for a new model of formal and adequate social housing.","context_en":"Housing, Construction and Sanitation Minister Mauricio Arnillas met with World Bank representatives, with whom he discussed water and sanitation projects being developed in the country as well as the presentation of a proposal for a new model of formal and adequate social housing.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ministro-vivienda-arnillas-dialoga-con-banco-mundial-sobre-agua-y-saneamiento-1094235.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"573845e6902d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:16:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW ZEALAND","what":"Greenhouse gases hit record levels in New Zealand's atmosphere, new data shows","headline":"Greenhouse gases reached record levels in New Zealand's atmosphere according to new data","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"At the same time, the country's climate is changing, with warmer annual temperatures and a greater proportion of rain falling during extreme events.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"At the same time, the country's climate is changing, with warmer annual temperatures and a greater proportion of rain falling during extreme events.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/environment_climate/1680986/greenhouse-gases-hit-record-levels-in-new-zealand-s-atmosphere-new-data-shows","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0bbdcad7fb9b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:15:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"South Korea’s centenarian population grows over 30% in 4 years","headline":"South Korea's centenarian population grew more than 30 percent in four years, with women outnumbering men about five to one","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Women outnumber men roughly 5 to 1 among the country’s centenarians.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Women outnumber men roughly 5 to 1 among the country’s centenarians.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:14000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/south-koreas-centenarian-population-grows-over-30-in-4-years","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a598756e2651","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:14:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"'Very violent' home invasions targeted women alone, police say","headline":"Police in Australia charged three men over very violent home invasions that targeted women alone in Sydney","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Three men have been charged over violent home invasions, as police investigate whether the group were planning to target a third victim.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Three men have been charged over violent home invasions, as police investigate whether the group were planning to target a third victim.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/nsw-three-charged-after-women-assaulted-home-invasions-sydney/107220274","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4e93cfc33db8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:13:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHIAPAS","what":"Congreso de Chiapas inicia tercer año de labores; hay 175 iniciativas pendientes de análisis","headline":"Chiapas Congress begins third year of work; 175 initiatives pending review","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Marcela Castillo Atristain, fue designada como presidenta de la Mesa Directiva, mientras que el coordinador del grupo parlamentario de Morena, Mario Guillén, quedó al frente de la Junta de Coordinación Política","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Marcela Castillo Atristain, fue designada como presidenta de la Mesa Directiva, mientras que el coordinador del grupo parlamentario de Morena, Mario Guillén, quedó al frente de la Junta de Coordinación Política","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Marcela Castillo Atristain was designated president of the Board of Directors, while the coordinator of the Morena parliamentary group, Mario Guillén, was placed in charge of the Coordination Board.","context_en":"Marcela Castillo Atristain was designated president of the Board of Directors, while the coordinator of the Morena parliamentary group, Mario Guillén, was placed in charge of the Coordination Board.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/estados/congreso-de-chiapas-inicia-tercer-ano-de-labores-hay-175-iniciativas-pendientes-de-analisis/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b52e065d6f37","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T03:07:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CIUDAD JUÁREZ","what":"Río Bravo crece en Ciudad Juárez por lluvias y escurrimientos de EU; cierran avenidas y activan operativo","headline":"Rio Bravo rises in Ciudad Juarez due to rains and US runoff; avenues closed and operation activated","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Protección Civil implementó un operativo preventivo y realizó trabajos para evitar que el agua ingresara a colonias cercanas al cauce","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Protección Civil implementó un operativo preventivo y realizó trabajos para evitar que el agua ingresara a colonias cercanas al cauce","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Civil Protection implemented a preventive operation and carried out work to prevent water from entering neighborhoods near the riverbed.","context_en":"Civil Protection implemented a preventive operation and carried out work to prevent water from entering neighborhoods near the riverbed.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/estados/rio-bravo-crece-en-ciudad-juarez-por-lluvias-y-escurrimientos-de-eu-activan-vigilancia-ante-posible-desbordamiento/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"489480845cbd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:53:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Beau Lamarre-Condon jury played Triple Zero call from day of alleged murders","headline":"Jury in Sydney Australia heard the Triple Zero call from Luke Davies on the day Beau Lamarre-Condon allegedly murdered him and Jesse Baird","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A jury has been played a Triple Zero (000) call from the phone of Luke Davies on the morning he and his boyfriend, Jesse Baird, were allegedly murdered by then-police officer Beau Lamarre-Condon.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A jury has been played a Triple Zero (000) call from the phone of Luke Davies on the morning he and his boyfriend, Jesse Baird, were allegedly murdered by then-police officer Beau Lamarre-Condon.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/nsw-beau-lamarre-condon-jesse-baird-triple-zero-call/107219596","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"076c99fd1291","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:49:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"NY's governor appoints special prosecutor in Cornell frat rape investigation","headline":"New York governor Kathy Hochul appointed Attorney General Letitia James as special prosecutor in the Cornell fraternity rape case","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The governor said she'd lost faith in prosecutors overseeing the case and handed it over to New York Attorney General Letitia James.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The governor said she'd lost faith in prosecutors overseeing the case and handed it over to New York Attorney General Letitia James.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/hochul-replaces-da-ag-letitia-james-special-prosecutor-cornell-rcna601054","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cr1585y0y90go?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/ny-cornell-gang-rape-attorney-general-to-oversee-case/107220888","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/6124932-hochul-appoints-james-special-prosecutor/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/nation/states/hochul-appoints-new-york-ag-letitia-james-special-prosecutor-cornell-case?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2026/10/01/unsealed-documents-detail-cornell-investigation-into-alleged-rape-fraternity-house/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"be19ee74f0f3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:40:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"'Three family members' found dead in Auckland's Papatoetoe","headline":"Three family members were found dead in Auckland's Papatoetoe in New Zealand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A neighbour says his children waved at a man at the home just 10 minutes before police showed up.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A neighbour says his children waved at a man at the home just 10 minutes before police showed up.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1676838/three-family-members-found-dead-in-auckland-s-papatoetoe","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"64cfdbfef309","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:33:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Crew docks at space station with astronaut who'll miss birth of 3rd child","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"With the arrival of four fresh space station crew members, four others will head for home after 235 days in orbit.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"With the arrival of four fresh space station crew members, four others will head for home after 235 days in orbit.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/spacex-launch-space-station-crew-6-month-mission/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cb37400cb0a6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:29:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHLAND","what":"At least 12 whales dead on Ninety Mile Beach as rescue continues","headline":"At least 12 whales died on Ninety Mile Beach in New Zealand as rescue work continued","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The whales, which could grow up to 2.6 metres long, were scattered across several kilometres of beach.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The whales, which could grow up to 2.6 metres long, were scattered across several kilometres of beach.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1683353/at-least-12-whales-dead-on-ninety-mile-beach-as-rescue-continues","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/whale-sinks-yacht-south-pacific-sailors-rescued-new-zealand/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a717075a3bfc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:18:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EUROPE","what":"More than half of Europe faced intense summer heat stress, EU monitor says","headline":"A record 52 percent of Europe faced intense heat stress in summer 2023, the EU climate monitor said Friday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A record 52% of Europe faced intense heat stress this summer, the EU’s climate monitor said Friday, as climate change fuelled widespread heatwaves and tens of thousands of excess deaths.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A record 52% of Europe faced intense heat stress this summer, the EU’s climate monitor said Friday, as climate change fuelled widespread heatwaves and tens of thousands of excess deaths. Europe recorded its third warmest summer, while western Europe experienced its hottest, with several countries setting national temperature records overall.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/environment/20261002-europe-summer-heat-stress-eu-monitor","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f20fa3db00f8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:18:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COLOMBIA","what":"Alarma en Colombia: ELN lanzó al menos 11 ataques con drones explosivos contra policías y militares","headline":"Alarm in Colombia: ELN launched at least 11 attacks with explosive drones against police and military","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Fuerza Pública ha sido blanco de al menos 11 ataques con explosivos lanzados desde drones en los últimos tres días, en tres municipios","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Fuerza Pública ha sido blanco de al menos 11 ataques con explosivos lanzados desde drones en los últimos tres días, en tres municipios","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Public Force has been the target of at least 11 attacks with explosives launched from drones in the last three days, in three municipalities.","context_en":"The Public Force has been the target of at least 11 attacks with explosives launched from drones in the last three days, in three municipalities.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/alarma-en-colombia-eln-lanzo-al-menos-11-ataques-con-drones-explosivos-contra-policias-y-militares/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2a791044196a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:17:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Bee & Co. skincare store at Westfield Topanga closes after sales tactic allegations","headline":"Bee and Co. closed its Westfield Topanga skincare store after allegations that its employees pressured vulnerable shoppers into buying expensive products","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The closure comes after months of reporting from CBS California Investigates on allegations that Bee & Co.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The closure comes after months of reporting from CBS California Investigates on allegations that Bee & Co. employees targeted vulnerable shoppers and pressured them into purchasing expensive skin care products and devices.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/losangeles/news/bee-and-co-skincare-store-westfield-topanga-closed-coercive-sales-tactics/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"77bae13d22a7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:17:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRASÍLIA","what":"Frente Parlamentar da Agropecuária, maior bancada do Congresso, declara apoio a Flávio Bolsonaro","headline":"Parliamentary Front for Agriculture, largest bloc in Congress, declares support for Flávio Bolsonaro","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"BRASÍLIA - A Frente Parlamentar da Agropecuária (FPA) declarou na noite desta quinta-feira, 1º, apoio à candidatura do senador Flávio Bolsonaro (PL-RJ) à Presidência da República.","quote":"A decisão reflete a convergência das diretrizes do plano de governo do candidato com as prioridades, necessidades e demandas urgentes do setor","quote_en":"The decision reflects the convergence of the candidate's government plan guidelines with the priorities, needs and urgent demands of the sector","context":"BRASÍLIA - A Frente Parlamentar da Agropecuária (FPA) declarou na noite desta quinta-feira, 1º, apoio à candidatura do senador Flávio Bolsonaro (PL-RJ) à Presidência da República. “A decisão reflete a convergência das diretrizes do plano de governo do candidato com as prioridades, necessidades e demandas urgentes do setor”, disse a bancada em nota. Maior e mais influente bancada do Congresso Nacional, a FPA possui 345 parlamentares membros.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"BRASÍLIA - The Parliamentary Front for Agriculture (FPA) declared its support on Thursday night, 1st, for Senator Flávio Bolsonaro (PL-RJ) as a candidate for President of the Republic.","context_en":"BRASÍLIA - The Parliamentary Front for Agriculture (FPA) declared its support on Thursday night, 1st, for Senator Flávio Bolsonaro (PL-RJ) as a candidate for President of the Republic.","lang":"pt","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Estadão","url":"https://www.estadao.com.br/economia/agronegocios/frente-parlamentar-da-agropecuaria-maior-bancada-do-congresso-declara-apoio-a-flavio-bolsonaro/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"0292bf5db62d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:17:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TABUK","what":"Flydubai hijacker, wounded pilot accompanied by Emirati security team to UAE, Saudi Arabia says","headline":"Saudi Arabia sent the Flydubai hijacker and wounded pilot back to the UAE with an Emirati security team","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Both were cleared to fly by medical professionals after being hospitalized once the aircraft landed in Tubuk.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Both were cleared to fly by medical professionals after being hospitalized once the aircraft landed in Tubuk.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":3,"top":true,"topSim":0.687},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$10","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/middle-east/article-910384","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b5f2a330c061","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:13:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Congreso: Junta de Portavoces de la Cámara de Diputados sesionará mañana","headline":"Congress: Chamber of Deputies Speakers' Board to meet tomorrow","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Este viernes 2 de octubre se realizará una nueva sesión de la Junta de Portavoces de la Cámara de Diputados, informó el Congreso de la República.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Este viernes 2 de octubre se realizará una nueva sesión de la Junta de Portavoces de la Cámara de Diputados, informó el Congreso de la República.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A new session of the Speakers' Board of the Chamber of Deputies will be held this Friday, October 2, the Congress of the Republic reported.","context_en":"A new session of the Speakers' Board of the Chamber of Deputies will be held this Friday, October 2, the Congress of the Republic reported.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-congreso-junta-portavoces-de-camara-diputados-sesionara-manana-1094225.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4f680c5f6d58","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:03:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PUNO","what":"Indeci: extinguen 4 incendios forestales en Puno, Arequipa, Cusco y Ayacucho","headline":"Indeci: Four forest fires extinguished in Puno, Arequipa, Cusco and Ayacucho","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Cuatro incendios forestales, que se desataron entre el martes 29 de setiembre y el jueves 1 de octubre en los distritos de Lampa (Puno), Sibayo (Arequipa), Layo (Cusco) y Sancos (Ayacucho), se encuentran extinguidos,…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Cuatro incendios forestales, que se desataron entre el martes 29 de setiembre y el jueves 1 de octubre en los distritos de Lampa (Puno), Sibayo (Arequipa), Layo (Cusco) y Sancos (Ayacucho), se encuentran extinguidos, informó el Instituto Nacional de Defensa Civil (Indeci), a través del Centro de Operaciones de Emergencia Nacional (COEN).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Four forest fires that broke out between Tuesday, September 29 and Thursday, October 1 in the districts of Lampa (Puno), Sibayo (Arequipa), Layo (Cusco) and Sancos (Ayacucho) have been extinguished, the National Civil Defense Institute (Indeci) reported through the National Emergency Operations Center (COEN).","context_en":"Four forest fires that broke out between Tuesday, September 29 and Thursday, October 1 in the districts of Lampa (Puno), Sibayo (Arequipa), Layo (Cusco) and Sancos (Ayacucho) have been extinguished, the National Civil Defense Institute (Indeci) reported through the National Emergency Operations Center (COEN).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-indeci-extinguen-4-incendios-forestales-puno-arequipa-cusco-y-ayacucho-1094230.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5917e3983bca","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:03:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VORONEZH OBLAST","what":"Russian military helicopter crashes in Voronezh Oblast – Astra","headline":"A Russian military Mi-8 helicopter crashed in Anna district of Voronezh Oblast in Russia and killed three people","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Russian military Mi-8 helicopter has crashed in the Anna district of Voronezh Oblast, killing three people, according to Astra.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Russian military Mi-8 helicopter has crashed in the Anna district of Voronezh Oblast, killing three people, according to Astra. The information has not been officially confirmed.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056062/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"56170051b625","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:01:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Sydney Airport suffers 4th near-miss in 2026 forcing plane to brake hard","headline":"Sydney Airport in Australia had its fourth near-miss in 2026 that forced a plane to brake hard","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New York Post · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Sydney Airport suffers 4th near-miss in 2026 forcing plane to brake hard","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/lifestyle/sydney-airport-suffers-4th-near-miss-in-2026-forcing-plane-to-brake-hard/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6695bfe77ade","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T02:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"An Indian airline captain is hailed as a hero after a cockpit attack on a FlyDubai flight","headline":"Indian pilot Smit Machchhar fended off a stabbing by his co-pilot on an Israel-bound FlyDubai flight and saved 170 lives, officials said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Indian airline captain who was at the controls of a FlyDubai flight when his copilot stabbed him in an apparent attempt to cras Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Indian airline captain who was at the controls of a FlyDubai flight when his copilot stabbed him in an apparent attempt to cras Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.522},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86970","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/world/asia/israel-flight-flydubai-pilot-captain-smit-machchhar.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"29157d3c2cc0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:58:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MUZAFFARABAD","what":"PML-N, PPP nominees file papers for four AJK Council seats","headline":"PML-N and PPP filed nomination papers for four vacant Azad Jammu and Kashmir Council seats in Muzaffarabad, Pakistan on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"MUZAFFARABAD: The ruling PML-N and op­­position PPP on Thursday filed nomination papers for four vacant seats of the Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Council.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"MUZAFFARABAD: The ruling PML-N and op­­position PPP on Thursday filed nomination papers for four vacant seats of the Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Council. The PML-N has fielded three candidates — Chau­dhry Mohammad Saeed, Mushtaq Ahmed Minhas and Chaudhry Manzoor Ahmed — while the PPP has nominated former Legislative Assembly speaker Chaudhry Latif Akbar for the fourth seat. Mr Saeed and Mr Minhas had lost to PPP candidates in the recently held general elections from Mirpur and Bagh, respectively. Mr Manzoor, a senior PML-N leader from Muzaffarabad city, has never contested an election.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034128/pml-n-ppp-nominees-file-papers-for-four-ajk-council-seats","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86c796904b7f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:58:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"FCC frames rules on fundamental rights","headline":"Pakistan's Federal Constitutional Court set rules on fundamental rights in Islamabad on October 2 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Dawn · October 2, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$undefined","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034123/fcc-frames-rules-on-fundamental-rights","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f85e18539206","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:58:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"Pakistani diplomat appointed to UN advisory group","headline":"Pakistan appointed diplomat Qazi Shaukat Fareed to the UN Central Emergency Response Fund advisory group in Islamabad","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: A Pakistani diplomat is among the eight new members appointed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to the Advisory Group of the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: A Pakistani diplomat is among the eight new members appointed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres to the Advisory Group of the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF). Pakistan’s Qazi Shaukat Fareed is currently the Permanent Observer for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean to the United Nations and UN System.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2034122/pakistani-diplomat-appointed-to-un-advisory-group","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"295a851d7b36","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:57:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BENDIGO","what":"Bird flu tests underway after 60 ibises found dead in Bendigo","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Authorities are working to determine whether the death of almost 60 birds at a popular lake in Bendigo is the result of H5N1 bird flu.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Authorities are working to determine whether the death of almost 60 birds at a popular lake in Bendigo is the result of H5N1 bird flu.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/dead-ibis-sparks-testing-bendigo-lake-weeroona/107219736","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5d8c58bae678","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:49:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COLOMBIA","what":"Adolescente admitió haber sido el autor del asesinato a tiros de un exalcalde de Colombia","headline":"Teenager admitted to being the gunman who killed a former Colombian mayor","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un adolescente de 17 años admitió este jueves 1 de octubre, ser el autor de los disparos que acabaron con la vida del polémico","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un adolescente de 17 años admitió este jueves 1 de octubre, ser el autor de los disparos que acabaron con la vida del polémico","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A 17-year-old teenager admitted this Thursday, October 1, to being the author of the shots that ended the life of the controversial former mayor.","context_en":"A 17-year-old teenager admitted this Thursday, October 1, to being the author of the shots that ended the life of the controversial former mayor.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/adolescente-admitio-haber-sido-el-autor-del-asesinato-a-tiros-de-un-exalcalde-de-colombia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"629ea14c3f3c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:40:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIMA","what":"San Marcos será centro de votación el domingo 4 de octubre: dispone clases virtuales","headline":"San Marcos to be a voting center on Sunday 4 October, orders virtual classes","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Campus de la Universidad Nacional Mavor de San Marcos (UNMSM) será centro de votación de las Elecciones Regionales y Municipales 2026 (ERM 2026), a realizarse este domingo 4 de octubre, razón por la que ha decidió…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Campus de la Universidad Nacional Mavor de San Marcos (UNMSM) será centro de votación de las Elecciones Regionales y Municipales 2026 (ERM 2026), a realizarse este domingo 4 de octubre, razón por la que ha decidió suspender las clases presenciales hasta nuevo aviso.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The campus of the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos (UNMSM) will be a voting center for the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections to be held this Sunday 4 October, which is why it has decided to suspend in-person classes until further notice.","context_en":"The campus of the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos (UNMSM) will be a voting center for the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections to be held this Sunday 4 October, which is why it has decided to suspend in-person classes until further notice.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-san-marcos-sera-centro-votacion-domingo-4-octubre-dispone-clases-virtuales-1094229.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"093b5b8e783d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:35:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ROTORUA","what":"Man charged in relation to Rotorua triple homicide granted bail","headline":"A man charged over the Rotorua killings of two young children and a woman won bail in New Zealand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two young children and a woman died.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two young children and a woman died.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1681732/man-charged-in-relation-to-rotorua-triple-homicide-granted-bail","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b4b57b597ee5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:35:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"Indonesia’s Anak Krakatau volcano spawns two new islands after eruption, first since 1930","headline":"Anak Krakatau volcano in Indonesia created two new islands in an eruption, the first since 1930","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The new formations sit hundreds of metres off opposite sides of Anak Krakatau.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The new formations sit hundreds of metres off opposite sides of Anak Krakatau.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/indonesias-anak-krakatau-volcano-spawns-two-new-islands-after-eruption-first-since-1930","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ad78e8814919","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:34:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"OpenAI fires workers for mishandling 'sensitive information'","headline":"OpenAI fired three workers for sharing sensitive information with an outside AI evaluation group","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The former employees were investigated for sharing data with an outside AI evaluation group.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The former employees were investigated for sharing data with an outside AI evaluation group.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6y9z9r4ejzwo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/02/openai-licenzia-tre-ricercatori-per-gestione-impropria-di-informazioni-sensibili_cb2475d6-0e85-474e-9a56-90f7c8860065.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b40c65849b13","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:34:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHILE","what":"Camión pierde el control e impacta a 8 vehículos en bajada La Pirámide: hay un fallecido y seis heridos","headline":"Truck loses control and hits 8 vehicles on La Pirámide downhill: 1 dead and 6 injured","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Personal del Servicio de Investigación de Accidentes en el Tránsito (Siat) de Carabineros trabaja en el lugar, para determinar las causas exactas del hecho.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Personal del Servicio de Investigación de Accidentes en el Tránsito (Siat) de Carabineros trabaja en el lugar, para determinar las causas exactas del hecho.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Personnel from the Traffic Accident Investigation Service (Siat) of Carabineros are working at the scene to determine the exact causes of the incident.","context_en":"Personnel from the Traffic Accident Investigation Service (Siat) of Carabineros are working at the scene to determine the exact causes of the incident.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Tercera","url":"https://www.latercera.com/nacional/noticia/camion-pierde-el-control-e-impacta-a-8-vehiculos-en-bajada-la-piramide-hay-un-fallecido-y-seis-heridos/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1e72a58036d4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:33:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ÁNCASH","what":"Parque Nacional Huascarán: retienen maquinaria vinculada a presunta minería ilegal","headline":"Huascarán National Park: machinery linked to alleged illegal mining seized","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Una alerta por presunta minería ilegal movilizó a las autoridades al interior del Parque Nacional Huascarán, en Áncash, donde fueron retenidos cinco volquetes y una retroexcavadora.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Una alerta por presunta minería ilegal movilizó a las autoridades al interior del Parque Nacional Huascarán, en Áncash, donde fueron retenidos cinco volquetes y una retroexcavadora.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"An alert over alleged illegal mining mobilized authorities inside Huascarán National Park in Ancash, where five dump trucks and one backhoe were seized.","context_en":"An alert over alleged illegal mining mobilized authorities inside Huascarán National Park in Ancash, where five dump trucks and one backhoe were seized.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-parque-nacional-huascaran-retienen-maquinaria-vinculada-a-presunta-mineria-ilegal-1094228.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ca4534993d45","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:33:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOKYO","what":"Notice Regarding Unauthorized Access to Servers Managed by Our Group","headline":"The Japan Times said its group company servers in Tokyo suffered unauthorized access","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Japan Times, Ltd.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Japan Times, Ltd. (headquartered in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo; hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) hereby announces that certain servers managed by a group company have been subject to unauthorized access.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/press/2026/10/02/notice-ransomware-incident/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f0d8efad1fa8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:30:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MILWAUKEE","what":"G20 trade ministers deadlocked over industrial overcapacity, says US trade chief","headline":"G20 trade ministers failed to agree on tackling industrial overcapacity and forced labor in supply chains in Milwaukee, US trade chief Jamieson Greer said Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"G20 trade ministers failed to agree on tackling excess industrial capacity and eliminating forced labour from supply chains, US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"G20 trade ministers failed to agree on tackling excess industrial capacity and eliminating forced labour from supply chains, US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said Thursday. Speaking during talks in Milwaukee, Greer highlighted overcapacity, a criticism often directed at China, which rejects it. The United States holds this year's rotating presidency.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/economy/20261002-g20-trade-ministers-overcapacity-impasse-greer","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Office of the U.S. Trade Representative","url":"https://ustr.gov/about/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2026/september/ambassador-greer-delivers-opening-remarks-2026-g20-trade-ministerial","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Office of the U.S. Trade Representative","url":"https://ustr.gov/about/policy-offices/press-office/speeches-and-remarks/2026/september/ambassador-greers-opening-remarks-g20-trade-ministerial","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Office of the U.S. Trade Representative","url":"https://ustr.gov/about/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2026/september/ambassador-greer-issues-statement-following-ministerial-meeting-global-forum-steel-excess-capacity","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4a2bf2622a75","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ÁNCASH","what":"Áncash: identifican 184 zonas críticas por peligros geológicos ante El Niño 2026-2027","headline":"Ancash: 184 critical zones identified for geological hazards ahead of El Niño 2026-2027","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Instituto Geológico, Minero y Metalúrgico (Ingemmet) ha identificado 184 zonas críticas por peligros geológicos —huaicos, deslizamientos o desbordes de ríos— en 12 de las 20 provincias del departamento de Áncash y…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Instituto Geológico, Minero y Metalúrgico (Ingemmet) ha identificado 184 zonas críticas por peligros geológicos —huaicos, deslizamientos o desbordes de ríos— en 12 de las 20 provincias del departamento de Áncash y lo informó a las autoridades ante la ocurrencia de lluvias intensas asociadas al fenómeno El Niño (FEN).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Geological, Mining and Metallurgical Institute (Ingemmet) has identified 184 critical zones for geological hazards — huaicos, landslides or river overflows — in 12 of the 20 provinces of the Ancash department and reported it to the authorities in view of the occurrence of intense rains associated with the El Niño phenomenon (FEN).","context_en":"The Geological, Mining and Metallurgical Institute (Ingemmet) has identified 184 critical zones for geological hazards — huaicos, landslides or river overflows — in 12 of the 20 provinces of the Ancash department and reported it to the authorities in view of the occurrence of intense rains associated with the El Niño phenomenon (FEN).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ancash-identifican-184-zonas-criticas-peligros-geologicos-ante-nino-20262027-1094226.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"32313ef2d80d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:21:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Protestas nocturnas por crisis de apagones sacudieron varios estados de Venezuela este #1Oct (VIDEOS)","headline":"Nighttime protests over power outage crisis shook several Venezuelan states on Oct 1 (VIDEOS)","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las calles de varios estados de Venezuela volvieron a encenderse la noche de este jueves 1 de octubre, donde ciudadanos siguen aumentando las manifestaciones","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las calles de varios estados de Venezuela volvieron a encenderse la noche de este jueves 1 de octubre, donde ciudadanos siguen aumentando las manifestaciones","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The streets of several Venezuelan states lit up again on the night of Thursday, October 1, where citizens continue to increase the demonstrations.","context_en":"The streets of several Venezuelan states lit up again on the night of Thursday, October 1, where citizens continue to increase the demonstrations.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/protestas-nocturnas-por-crisis-de-apagones-sacudieron-varios-estados-de-venezuela-este-1oct-videos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/avenida-bolivar-en-caracas-fue-trancada-por-damnificados-que-llevan-tres-meses-esperando-vivienda-videos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d0ea291d2f87","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:17:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Premier Galarreta: crédito suplementario permitirá impulsar obras y cierre de brechas","headline":"Premier Galarreta: supplementary credit will allow boosting works and closing gaps","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El presidente del Consejo de Ministros, Luis Galarreta, subrayó que el proyecto de ley de crédito suplementario propuesto por el Ejecutivo tiene como finalidad impulsar la inversión pública, dar continuidad a las obra…","quote":"El presidente del Consejo de Ministros, Luis Galarreta, subrayó que el proyecto de ley de crédito suplementario propuesto por el Ejecutivo tiene como finalidad impulsar la inversión pública, dar continuidad a las obras y atender los problemas que afectan diariamente a la población.","quote_en":"The president of the Council of Ministers, Luis Galarreta, underlined that the supplementary credit bill proposed by the Executive aims to boost public investment, give continuity to works and address problems that affect the population daily.","context":"El presidente del Consejo de Ministros, Luis Galarreta, subrayó que el proyecto de ley de crédito suplementario propuesto por el Ejecutivo tiene como finalidad impulsar la inversión pública, dar continuidad a las obras y atender los problemas que afectan diariamente a la población.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The president of the Council of Ministers, Luis Galarreta, underlined that the supplementary credit bill proposed by the Executive aims to boost public investment, give continuity to works and address problems that affect the population daily.","context_en":"The president of the Council of Ministers, Luis Galarreta, underlined that the supplementary credit bill proposed by the Executive aims to boost public investment, give continuity to works and address problems that affect the population daily.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-premier-galarreta-credito-suplementario-permitira-impulsar-obras-y-cierre-brechas-1094227.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"76f0dd066b59","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:16:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Pelosi cancels Cornell University event amid frat house rape investigation","headline":"Nancy Pelosi canceled a Cornell University event in New York on Oct 15 amid scrutiny of the school's handling of a 2024 gang rape allegation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"House Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) canceled an upcoming event affiliated with Cornell University amid fresh scrutiny of how the Ivy League institution handled a 2024 allegation of gang rape on its campus.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"House Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) canceled an upcoming event affiliated with Cornell University amid fresh scrutiny of how the Ivy League institution handled a 2024 allegation of gang rape on its campus. A source close to the Democratic lawmaker told The Hill that the Oct. 15 event in New York City with the Cornell…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/house/6124898-pelosi-cancels-cornell-event/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/jane-doe-cornell-university-rape-allegations-text-messages-transcripts/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/US/timeline-alleged-cornell-university-fraternity-house-rape-investigation/story?id=136884431","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"840642fd7939","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:03:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HOKKAIDO","what":"McDonald’s Japan halts sales of some burgers in Hokkaido amid concerns over beef patties","headline":"McDonald’s Japan stopped selling some burgers in Hokkaido over concerns about its beef patties","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The suspension affects products including McDonald’s hamburger, bacon lettuce burger, and Big Mac.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The suspension affects products including McDonald’s hamburger, bacon lettuce burger, and Big Mac.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/mcdonalds-japan-halts-sales-of-some-burgers-in-hokkaido-amid-concerns-over-beef-patties","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e764f9e5882","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T01:02:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"ERM 2026: JNE pide garantizar seguridad de candidatos, miembros de mesa y ciudadanía","headline":"ERM 2026: JNE asks executive to guarantee security of candidates, poll workers and citizens","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Pleno del Jurado Nacional de Elecciones (JNE) acordó pedir al Poder Ejecutivo a que se adopten las medidas pertinentes para garantizar la seguridad e integridad de los candidatos, servidores de los organismos elect…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Pleno del Jurado Nacional de Elecciones (JNE) acordó pedir al Poder Ejecutivo a que se adopten las medidas pertinentes para garantizar la seguridad e integridad de los candidatos, servidores de los organismos electorales, miembros de mesa y ciudadanía en general, en el marco de las Elecciones Regionales y Municipales 2026 (ERM 2026).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The plenary of the National Elections Jury (JNE) agreed to ask the executive branch to adopt the pertinent measures to guarantee the security and integrity of candidates, electoral agency staff, poll workers and the citizenry in general, within the framework of the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections (ERM 2026).","context_en":"The plenary of the National Elections Jury (JNE) agreed to ask the executive branch to adopt the pertinent measures to guarantee the security and integrity of candidates, electoral agency staff, poll workers and the citizenry in general, within the framework of the 2026 Regional and Municipal Elections (ERM 2026).","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-erm-2026-jne-pide-garantizar-seguridad-candidatos-miembros-mesa-y-ciudadania-1094224.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/politica/jne-fija-el-29-de-noviembre-para-una-eventual-segunda-eleccion-regional-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b093f3567b84","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:58:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOKYO","what":"Borsa: Tokyo, apertura in calo (-0,69%)","headline":"Stock Market: Tokyo Opens Down (-0.69%)","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Timori per aumento rendimenti obbligazionari e nuova impennata prezzo petrolio","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Timori per aumento rendimenti obbligazionari e nuova impennata prezzo petrolio","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Fears of rising bond yields and a new spike in oil prices.","context_en":"Fears of rising bond yields and a new spike in oil prices.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/02/borsa-tokyo-apertura-in-calo-069_cad394c8-9186-41e4-8684-19ffa415d47e.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/borsa-tokyo-apertura-in-aumento-070_927254f4-af1c-4d5b-b2d5-d8ab7513ccf1.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"74955dcdae61","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:52:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NICARAGUA","what":"La OEA se prepara para debatir la crisis de Nicaragua con apenas siete cancilleres confirmados","headline":"OAS prepares to debate Nicaragua crisis with only seven confirmed foreign ministers","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Solo siete cancilleres de los 34 Estados miembros de la Organización de los Estados Americanos (OEA) han confirmado su asistencia a la reunión extraordinaria","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Solo siete cancilleres de los 34 Estados miembros de la Organización de los Estados Americanos (OEA) han confirmado su asistencia a la reunión extraordinaria","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Only seven foreign ministers out of the 34 member states of the Organization of American States (OAS) have confirmed their attendance at the extraordinary meeting.","context_en":"Only seven foreign ministers out of the 34 member states of the Organization of American States (OAS) have confirmed their attendance at the extraordinary meeting.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/la-oea-se-prepara-para-debatir-la-crisis-de-nicaragua-con-apenas-siete-cancilleres-confirmados/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"224888789e7a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:49:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"College professor accused of sending explicit Snapchat messages in child solicitation case: sheriff's office","headline":"Texas professor Aaron Wood sent explicit Snapchat messages to someone he thought was a 14-year-old boy, an undercover Florida officer, sheriff's office said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Aaron Wood, a Texas professor, allegedly sent sexually explicit photos and messages online to an undercover Florida officer he believed was a 14-year-old boy.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Aaron Wood, a Texas professor, allegedly sent sexually explicit photos and messages online to an undercover Florida officer he believed was a 14-year-old boy.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/college-professor-accused-sending-explicit-snapchat-messages-child-solicitation-case-sheriffs-office","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7f1bc338949a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:45:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"REEFTON","what":"Pair who died in Buller named","headline":"A man and a woman found dead near Reefton in New Zealand on Tuesday were named","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"They were found dead near Reefton on Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"They were found dead near Reefton on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1682035/pair-who-died-in-buller-named","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"400de8b498fe","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:35:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIMA","what":"Intensa llovizna en diversos distritos de la capital sorprende a limeños","headline":"Intense drizzle in various districts of the capital surprises Limeños","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Una intensa llovizna se registra esta noche en diversos puntos de la capital, reportaron vecinos de Lima, quienes advirtieron sobre posibles aniegos en lugares de alto tránsito, como la vía expresa y conocidas avenida…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Una intensa llovizna se registra esta noche en diversos puntos de la capital, reportaron vecinos de Lima, quienes advirtieron sobre posibles aniegos en lugares de alto tránsito, como la vía expresa y conocidas avenidas principales.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"An intense drizzle is being recorded tonight in various parts of the capital, neighbors in Lima reported, who warned about possible flooding in high-traffic areas such as the expressway and well-known main avenues.","context_en":"An intense drizzle is being recorded tonight in various parts of the capital, neighbors in Lima reported, who warned about possible flooding in high-traffic areas such as the expressway and well-known main avenues.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-intensa-llovizna-diversos-distritos-de-capital-sorprende-a-limenos-1094223.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ae6bdf1cd20e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:35:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Scoop: U.S. sent more Patriots to protect Saudi, Qatari energy sites","headline":"U.S. military sent two more Patriot batteries to protect oil and gas sites in Saudi Arabia and Qatar","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The U.S. military in recent weeks sent two additional Patriot missile batteries to protect oil and gas facilities in Saudi Arabia and Qatar, two U.S. officials and one regional source said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/10/02/patriot-missiles-iran-war-saudi-arabia-qatar","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"38964cf754fe","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:25:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ECUADOR","what":"Descubrieron 748 kilos de cocaína escondidos en sacos de cemento que iban de Ecuador a Turquía","headline":"Ecuadorian police seized 748 kilos of cocaine hidden in cement sacks bound for Turkey","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Policía ecuatoriana incautó 748 kilos de cocaína que estaban mezclados con cemento de exportación y que fueron hallados en el interior de contenedores","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Policía ecuatoriana incautó 748 kilos de cocaína que estaban mezclados con cemento de exportación y que fueron hallados en el interior de contenedores","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Ecuadorian police seized 748 kilos of cocaine that had been mixed with export cement and found inside shipping containers.","context_en":"Ecuadorian police seized 748 kilos of cocaine that had been mixed with export cement and found inside shipping containers.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/descubrieron-748-kilos-de-cocaina-escondidos-en-sacos-de-cemento-que-iban-de-ecuador-a-turquia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"71811cc1830d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:04:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TONGA","what":"'Gang work to do': Deportee convicted over Comancheros bid in Tonga","headline":"Deportee Eneasi Taumoefolau set up a Comancheros gang branch in Tonga and was convicted of organised crime","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Eneasi Taumoefolau has been found guilty in Tonga of participating in an organised criminal group over his role in establishing a branch of the Comancheros in the Pacific nation.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Eneasi Taumoefolau has been found guilty in Tonga of participating in an organised criminal group over his role in establishing a branch of the Comancheros in the Pacific nation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/deportee-to-tonga-convicted-over-comancheros-bid/107208250","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e858e51f04a6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"SYRIA","what":"Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Syria","headline":"President continued national emergency over the situation in Syria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Presidential Document.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Presidential Document. Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Situation in and in Relation to Syria (Executive Office of the President)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20322/continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-situation-in-and-in-relation-to-syria","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ec74948c5f7e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Inaugurating the Era of Super Intelligence","headline":"United States president ordered the start of the super intelligence era in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Presidential Document.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Presidential Document. Inaugurating the Era of Super Intelligence (Executive Office of the President)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20321/inaugurating-the-era-of-super-intelligence","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/09/inaugurating-the-era-of-super-intelligence/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ff091f0cd1ef","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2027","headline":"President sets limit of 17500 refugees for 2027 and puts Afrikaners from South Africa first","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Presidential Document.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Presidential Document. Presidential Determination on Refugee Admissions for Fiscal Year 2027 (Executive Office of the President)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"immigration","sim":0.4256},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$11","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20318/presidential-determination-on-refugee-admissions-for-fiscal-year-2027","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d997294181dd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"RHODE ISLAND","what":"Sunshine Act Meetings","headline":"The Unified Carrier Registration Plan held Sunshine Act meetings in Rhode Island","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. Sunshine Act Meetings (Unified Carrier Registration Plan)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20285/sunshine-act-meetings","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20274/sunshine-act-meetings","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/09/29/2026-19935/sunshine-act-meetings","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/09/29/2026-19920/sunshine-act-open-commission-meeting-wednesday-september-30-2026","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a26f8252685d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Global Benchmark for Efficient Drug Pricing (GLOBE) Model","headline":"HHS finalizes the GLOBE Model to test new Medicare Part B drug inflation rebate calculations in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. This final rule implements the Global Benchmark for Efficient Drug Pricing Model (GLOBE Model), a new mandatory Medicare payment model under section 1115A of the Social Security Act. The GLOBE Model will test whether a payment model that uses an alternative method for calculating Medicare Part B drug inflation rebate amounts for certain separately payable Medicare Part B drugs and biological products reduces costs for Original Medicare (OM) beneficiaries and the Medicare program while preserving quality of care. The term OM has the same meaning as Medicare fee-for-service and the traditional Medicare program. (Health and Human Services Department, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20281/global-benchmark-for-efficient-drug-pricing-globe-model","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"36dd4c5f7058","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Agency Information Collection Activities; Submission to the Office of Management and Budget for Review and Approval; Comment Request; Eligible Career Pathway Program","headline":"Education Department sought approval to extend an eligible career pathway program information collection","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995, the Department is proposing an extension without change of a currently approved information collection request (ICR). (Education Department)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20279/agency-information-collection-activities-submission-to-the-office-of-management-and-budget-for","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b2e15063aac4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Submission for OMB Review; Comment Request","headline":"The Agriculture Department asked the OMB to review its information collection","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. Submission for OMB Review; Comment Request (Agriculture Department)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20278/submission-for-omb-review-comment-request","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20267/submission-for-omb-review-comment-request","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c7d735d84db6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Federal Scholarship Tax Credit","headline":"Treasury and IRS proposed rules for a federal tax credit on gifts to school scholarship groups","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Proposed Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Proposed Rule. This document contains proposed regulations regarding the nonrefundable Federal tax credit for qualified contributions to scholarship granting organizations to fund qualified elementary and secondary school education scholarships. The proposed regulations would affect taxpayers who make such qualified contributions, States that elect to participate by certifying organizations as scholarship granting organizations, and the organizations that have been certified as scholarship granting organizations by one or more electing States. This document also provides notice of a public hearing on the proposed regulations. (Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service)","summary":"The Treasury Department and the IRS put out proposed rules for a nonrefundable federal tax credit. Taxpayers who give money to scholarship granting organizations could claim the credit. The rules also cover states that certify those groups and the groups themselves. Written comments are due by December 1 2026. A public hearing is set for December 15 2026 at 10 a.m. ET.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"schools","sim":0.4047},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$12","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20277/federal-scholarship-tax-credit","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20264/federal-scholarship-tax-credit","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6bf1ac0104b5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"INDIANA","what":"State of Indiana: Discontinuance of Certain Commission Regulatory Authority Within the State, Notice of Agreement Between the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the State of Indiana","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. This notice is announcing that on September 24, 2026, Ho K. Nieh, Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC or Commission), and Governor Michael Braun of the State of Indiana, signed an Agreement as authorized by Section 274b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act or AEA). Under the Agreement, the Commission discontinues its regulatory authority, and the State of Indiana assumes regulatory authority over byproduct materials, source materials, and special nuclear materials in quantities not sufficient to form a critical mass, as defined in Sections 11e.(1), 11e.(3), and 11e(4) of the AEA. (Nuclear Regulatory Commission)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20276/state-of-indiana-discontinuance-of-certain-commission-regulatory-authority-within-the-state-notice","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a425003417de","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Polyethylene Terephthalate Film, Sheet, and Strip From Taiwan: Preliminary Results and Preliminary Intent To Rescind, In Part, of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review; 2024-2025","headline":"Commerce found that Nan Ya Plastics sold PET film from Taiwan below normal value in the year to June 2025","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) preliminarily determines that Nan Ya Plastics Corporation (Nan Ya) made sales of polyethylene terephthalate film, sheet, and strip (PET film) from Taiwan at less than normal value (NV) during the period of review (POR) July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. Further, we preliminarily find that Shinkong Materials Technology Corporation (SMTC) and Shinkong Synthetic Fiber Corporation (SSFC), which we consider to be a single entity (SMTC/SSFC), had no reviewable entries during the POR. Interested parties are invited to comment on the preliminary results of this review. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20273/polyethylene-terephthalate-film-sheet-and-strip-from-taiwan-preliminary-results-and-preliminary","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"903a570e447e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Certain Aluminum Foil From the Republic of Türkiye: Final Results of Countervailing Duty Administrative Review; 2023","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) determines that countervailable subsidies were provided to producers and exporters of certain aluminum foil (aluminum foil) from the Republic of T[uuml]rkiye (T[uuml]rkiye), during the period of review (POR) January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20272/certain-aluminum-foil-from-the-republic-of-trkiye-final-results-of-countervailing-duty","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"df1af303ac57","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Investigation; Opportunity To Request Administrative Review and Join Annual Inquiry Service List; Note Regarding Format of Review Requests","headline":"Commerce Department opened annual reviews of antidumping and countervailing duty orders","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Order, Finding, or Suspended Investigation; Opportunity To Request Administrative Review and Join Annual Inquiry Service List; Note Regarding Format of Review Requests (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20269/antidumping-or-countervailing-duty-order-finding-or-suspended-investigation-opportunity-to-request","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6b7f2da85208","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MASSACHUSETTS","what":"New England Fishery Management Council; Public Meeting","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The New England Fishery Management Council (Council) is scheduling a public meeting of its United States/Canada Steering Committee to consider actions affecting New England fisheries in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ). Recommendations from this group will be brought to the full Council for formal consideration and action, if appropriate. (Commerce Department, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20268/new-england-fishery-management-council-public-meeting","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"08cd93dd5897","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Proposed Information Collection Activity; U.S. Repatriation Forms","headline":"The Administration for Children and Families asked for a three-year extension of its 13 U.S. Repatriation Program forms","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) is requesting a 3-year extension of the U.S. Repatriation Program forms (OMB #0970-0474, expiration 1/31/2027). There are several changes requested to the thirteen forms. Burden estimates have also been updated. (Health and Human Services Department, Children and Families Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20265/proposed-information-collection-activity-us-repatriation-forms","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e3573c242966","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Delegation of Authority by the Secretary of State to the Official Performing the Duties of the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development","headline":"The Secretary of State gave the acting head of the US Agency for International Development new powers in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. Delegation of Authority by the Secretary of State to the Official Performing the Duties of the Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development (State Department)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20263/delegation-of-authority-by-the-secretary-of-state-to-the-official-performing-the-duties-of-the","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9e116dfa0fd3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Commission Quorum Requirement","headline":"The Securities and Exchange Commission changed its rules on when a quorum is present","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. The Securities and Exchange Commission (\"Commission\") is amending its rules concerning the circumstances under which a quorum of the Commission is present. The amendments are designed to promote flexibility and finality of agency rulemaking. (Securities and Exchange Commission)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20262/commission-quorum-requirement","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"971798ed79b1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Foreign-Trade Zone (FTZ) 153; Authorization of Limited Production Activity; CMS Circuits, Inc.; (Electronic Manufacturing Services in Aerospace, Industrial, and Medical Applications); Murrieta, California","headline":"Commerce Department authorized limited production at CMS Circuits in Murrieta California foreign trade zone","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. Foreign-Trade Zone (FTZ) 153; Authorization of Limited Production Activity; CMS Circuits, Inc.; (Electronic Manufacturing Services in Aerospace, Industrial, and Medical Applications); Murrieta, California (Commerce Department, Foreign-Trade Zones Board)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20261/foreign-trade-zone-ftz-153-authorization-of-limited-production-activity-cms-circuits-inc-electronic","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1a341f459608","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Information Collection; Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 11 Requirements","headline":"OFPP, DoD, GSA and NASA asked the public to comment on extending Federal Acquisition Regulation part 11 information collection requirements","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$13","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20271/information-collection-federal-acquisition-regulation-part-11-requirements","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20270/information-collection-presolicitation-notice-and-response","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9d921827b668","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Streamlining Access to Government Services Through America.gov","headline":"United States ordered streamlined access to government services through America.gov in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Presidential Document.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Presidential Document. Streamlining Access to Government Services Through America.gov (Executive Office of the President)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20319/streamlining-access-to-government-services-through-americagov","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/09/streamlining-access-to-government-services-through-america-gov/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2026/09/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-streamlines-access-to-government-services-through-america-gov/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2bea6306b3a0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-02T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Eliminating Disease-Carrying Pests and Restoring Enjoyment of the Great Outdoors","headline":"United States president ordered steps to eliminate disease-carrying ticks and mosquitoes in Washington","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Presidential Document.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Presidential Document. Eliminating Disease-Carrying Pests and Restoring Enjoyment of the Great Outdoors (Executive Office of the President)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/02/2026-20320/eliminating-disease-carrying-pests-and-restoring-enjoyment-of-the-great-outdoors","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2026/09/eliminating-disease-carrying-pests-and-restoring-enjoyment-of-the-great-outdoors/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2026/09/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-eliminates-disease-carrying-pests-and-restores-enjoyment-of-the-great-outdoors/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7aa76863597a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:57:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LEIDEN","what":"Hulpverlener met ebola aangekomen in Leids ziekenhuis","headline":"Ebola aid worker arrives at Leiden hospital","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De medewerker van hulporganisatie Artsen zonder Grenzen die besmet is geraakt met ebola , is aangekomen in het Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum (LUMC).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"De medewerker van hulporganisatie Artsen zonder Grenzen die besmet is geraakt met ebola , is aangekomen in het Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum (LUMC). De patiënt werd met een Frans privévliegtuig vanuit Congo naar Nederland gerepatrieerd en kwam rond 19.45 uur aan op Schiphol, en werd daarna naar Leiden gebracht. Dat gebeurde onder begeleiding van de Koninklijke Marechaussee, zo meldt Omroep West. Dat ging met strenge veiligheidsmaatregelen: De medewerker, van wie de identiteit niet bekend wordt gemaakt, raakte besmet tijdens een uitzending in de Democratische Republiek Congo.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The employee of aid organization Doctors Without Borders who became infected with Ebola has arrived at the Leiden University Medical Center (LUMC). The patient was repatriated from Congo to the Netherlands aboard a French private plane and arrived at Schiphol around 19:45, then was taken to Leiden under escort by the Royal Military Police, Omroep West reports.","context_en":"The employee of aid organization Doctors Without Borders who became infected with Ebola has arrived at the Leiden University Medical Center (LUMC). The patient was repatriated from Congo to the Netherlands aboard a French private plane and arrived at Schiphol around 19:45, then was taken to Leiden under escort by the Royal Military Police, Omroep West reports.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633355","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"14a5996d0182","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:41:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BOSTON","what":"FBI arrests man on charge of stalking conservative podcaster Katie Miller","headline":"FBI arrested a Boston man on a charge of stalking conservative podcaster Katie Miller","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The defendant is accused of contacting Katie Miller, wife of White House deputy chief of staff Stephen Miller, over 40 times during in less than two months.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The defendant is accused of contacting Katie Miller, wife of White House deputy chief of staff Stephen Miller, over 40 times during in less than two months.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/fbi-arrests-massachusetts-man-charge-stalking-conservative-podcaster-k-rcna601029","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2026/10/01/man-charged-with-harassing-katie-miller/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"9dd03ff57f58","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:41:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Few Americans associate their elected leaders with the term ‘courage’: Gallup","headline":"Gallup poll found 4 percent of Americans linked courage to elected officials, tying with social media influencers","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"When asked to select which category of people they most associated with courage, just 4 percent of Americans picked elected officials — tying with social media influencers, according to newly-published Gallup survey r…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"When asked to select which category of people they most associated with courage, just 4 percent of Americans picked elected officials — tying with social media influencers, according to newly-published Gallup survey results. In the new poll, released Wednesday, respondents were given a list of 16 different groups of people — such as first responders,…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/6124774-gallup-courage-poll-results-american-politicians/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ef319befb3e8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:39:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DENVER","what":"Un pasajero murió durante un vuelo que cruzaba el Pacífico rumbo a Denver","headline":"A passenger died during a flight crossing the Pacific to Denver","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Momentos de pánico se vivieron el pasado martes 29 de septiembre en un avión de United Airlines que cubría la ruta entre Tokio y","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Momentos de pánico se vivieron el pasado martes 29 de septiembre en un avión de United Airlines que cubría la ruta entre Tokio y","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Moments of panic were experienced last Tuesday, September 29, on a United Airlines plane flying the route between Tokyo and Denver.","context_en":"Moments of panic were experienced last Tuesday, September 29, on a United Airlines plane flying the route between Tokyo and Denver.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/un-pasajero-murio-durante-un-vuelo-que-cruzaba-el-pacifico-rumbo-a-denver/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e6c1820dab1d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:35:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"US Sanctions A7, a Russia Firm That Helps Sidestep Economic Restrictions","headline":"Moscow put sanctions on A7, a Russia firm that helps clients dodge economic restrictions","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The move followed reports detailing how A7, a Moscow firm, uses shell companies around the world to move funds for clients who are themselves subject to sanctions.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The move followed reports detailing how A7, a Moscow firm, uses shell companies around the world to move funds for clients who are themselves subject to sanctions.","summary":"The US put sanctions on A7. This Moscow firm uses shell companies around the world. It moves funds for clients who face sanctions themselves. The move came after reports on how A7 works.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/business/a7-russia-us-sanctions.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"1f9a1b5a269e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:35:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH CAROLINA","what":"Pileup Involving 15 Tractor-Trailers Shutters I-95 in South Carolina","headline":"A 65-vehicle pileup that included 15 tractor-trailers shut I-95 in South Carolina and injured multiple people","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The crash also included 50 cars and resulted in at least one serious injury, fire officials said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The crash also included 50 cars and resulted in at least one serious injury, fire officials said. There were no fatalities, but multiple people were injured.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/us/south-carolina-95-crash.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"1953c4268042","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:32:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan's jobless rate rises to 2.5% in August","headline":"Japan's jobless rate rose to 2.5 percent in August","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan's jobless rate rises to 2.5% in August Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan's jobless rate rises to 2.5% in August Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86953","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"5058cec36544","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:29:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MYANMAR","what":"Japan acting envoy meets with Myanmar's foreign chief for 1st time","headline":"Japan's acting envoy Shogo Yoshitake met Myanmar foreign minister Tin Maung Swe for the first time on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan's Charge d'Affaires ad interim in Myanmar Shogo Yoshitake met Thursday with Myanmar Foreign Minister Tin Maung Swe, Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan's Charge d'Affaires ad interim in Myanmar Shogo Yoshitake met Thursday with Myanmar Foreign Minister Tin Maung Swe, Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86952","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"2444114155df","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:27:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SAUDI ARABIA","what":"Netanyahu says Flydubai co-pilot was radicalised as UAE probes terror link","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Thursday the co-pilot accused of attacking a Flydubai flight carrying mostly Israelis had undergone “Islamist radical indoctrination”, as UAE authorities investigated a p…","quote":"Islamist radical indoctrination","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Thursday the co-pilot accused of attacking a Flydubai flight carrying mostly Israelis had undergone “Islamist radical indoctrination”, as UAE authorities investigated a possible terror link. The captain and passengers overpowered the suspect before the plane made an emergency landing in Saudi Arabia on Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.702},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/10/01/netanyahu-flydubai-omani-co-pilot-islamic-radicalization","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/middle-east/20261001-netanyahu-flydubai-co-pilot-uae-terror-link","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/crje8edqyej9o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d802c81b2ed1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:21:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Sntp exigió libertad plena para los periodistas Jonathan Carrillo, Carlos Julio Rojas y Rory Branker","headline":"SNTP demanded full freedom for journalists Jonathan Carrillo, Carlos Julio Rojas and Rory Branker","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Prensa (Sntp) exigió este jueves 1 de octubre, el cierre de los procesos judiciales y el levantamiento","quote":"El Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Prensa (Sntp) exigió este jueves 1 de octubre, el cierre de los procesos judiciales y el levantamiento","quote_en":"The National Union of Press Workers (SNTP) demanded this Thursday, October 1, the closure of the judicial processes and the lifting","context":"El Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Prensa (Sntp) exigió este jueves 1 de octubre, el cierre de los procesos judiciales y el levantamiento","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The National Union of Press Workers (SNTP) demanded this Thursday, October 1, the closure of the judicial processes and the lifting of","context_en":"The National Union of Press Workers (SNTP) demanded this Thursday, October 1, the closure of the judicial processes and the lifting of","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/sntp-exigio-libertad-plena-para-los-periodistas-jonathan-carrillo-carlos-julio-rojas-y-rory-branker/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3aba4ae5ac14","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:04:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Fiscal clave que supervisaba el caso de Nicolás Maduro dejó la Fiscalía del Distrito Sur de Nueva York","headline":"Key prosecutor overseeing Nicolás Maduro case leaves Southern District of New York","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Jason Richman, uno de los fiscales federales que supervisaba el caso contra Nicolás Maduro en Nueva York, dejó la Fiscalía del Distrito Sur de","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Jason Richman, uno de los fiscales federales que supervisaba el caso contra Nicolás Maduro en Nueva York, dejó la Fiscalía del Distrito Sur de","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Jason Richman, one of the federal prosecutors who was supervising the case against Nicolás Maduro in New York, has left the Southern District Attorney's Office.","context_en":"Jason Richman, one of the federal prosecutors who was supervising the case against Nicolás Maduro in New York, has left the Southern District Attorney's Office.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/fiscal-clave-que-supervisaba-el-caso-de-nicolas-maduro-dejo-la-fiscalia-del-distrito-sur-de-nueva-york/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bf6b6aabc274","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:02:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MIRANDA","what":"Fuertes lluvias colapsaron el drenaje y anegaron una de las principales vías de Los Teques este #1Oct (VIDEO)","headline":"Heavy rains collapsed drainage and flooded a major road in Los Teques on Oct 1 (VIDEO)","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las fuertes lluvias registradas durante la tarde de este jueves 1 de octubre, provocaron anegaciones en distintos puntos de Los Teques, estado Miranda, afectando","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las fuertes lluvias registradas durante la tarde de este jueves 1 de octubre, provocaron anegaciones en distintos puntos de Los Teques, estado Miranda, afectando","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The heavy rains recorded during the afternoon of this Thursday, October 1, caused flooding in various points of Los Teques, Miranda state, affecting","context_en":"The heavy rains recorded during the afternoon of this Thursday, October 1, caused flooding in various points of Los Teques, Miranda state, affecting","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/fuertes-lluvias-colapsaron-el-drenaje-y-anegaron-una-de-las-principales-vias-de-los-teques-este-1oct-video/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fbb612b0cec3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:01:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHERN IRELAND","what":"Connect Fund to offer up to £500k for Northern Ireland and GB voluntary and community groups","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Applications for next round of grant scheme open at the start of November.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Applications for next round of grant scheme open at the start of November.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/connect-fund-to-offer-up-to-500k-for-northern-ireland-and-gb-voluntary-and-community-groups","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cba1b801ec0b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T23:00:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHILE","what":"Justicia chilena dictó condena contra integrante del Tren de Aragua por el asesinato de Ronald Ojeda","headline":"Chilean justice sentences Tren de Aragua member for the murder of Ronald Ojeda","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Justicia chilena emitió este jueves 1 de octubre, la primera condena en un juicio oral contra Maickel David Villegas Rodríguez, miembro de la","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Justicia chilena emitió este jueves 1 de octubre, la primera condena en un juicio oral contra Maickel David Villegas Rodríguez, miembro de la","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Chilean justice issued on Thursday, October 1, the first conviction in an oral trial against Maickel David Villegas Rodríguez, a member of the Tren de Aragua.","context_en":"Chilean justice issued on Thursday, October 1, the first conviction in an oral trial against Maickel David Villegas Rodríguez, a member of the Tren de Aragua.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/justicia-chilena-dicto-condena-contra-integrante-del-tren-de-aragua-por-el-asesinato-de-ronald-ojeda/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0d7266e8b781","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:59:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Judge rejects Trump administration arguments for withholding boat strike justification memo","headline":"A federal judge ordered the Pentagon to release its boat strike memo in New York on Wednesday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A federal judge on Wednesday ruled the Trump administration must turn over a Department of Justice (DOJ) memo that legally authorizes the Pentagon’s lethal boat strikes in the Caribbean and Pacific.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A federal judge on Wednesday ruled the Trump administration must turn over a Department of Justice (DOJ) memo that legally authorizes the Pentagon’s lethal boat strikes in the Caribbean and Pacific. U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer rejected two of the administration’s three arguments to keep the document secret in a 66-page opinion, requiring that the…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.405},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$14","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6124784-judge-orders-doj-memo-release/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27bf597f803b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:58:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Judge blocks Trump's firing of top federal prosecutor in Seattle","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Attorney General Todd Blanche announced in July that President Trump had fired Roger Rogoff as the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Attorney General Todd Blanche announced in July that President Trump had fired Roger Rogoff as the U.S. attorney in Seattle, less than an hour after he was sworn into the post.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/judge-blocks-trump-firing-top-federal-prosecutor-seattle-roger-rogoff/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/US/judge-reinstates-washington-state-us-attorney-fired-trump/story?id=136933518","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a2aee3bfb248","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:50:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KATWIJK","what":"Katwijk stemt in met komst miljardenfabriek Amerikaanse farmaceut Eli Lilly","headline":"Katwijk approves arrival of multibillion-dollar factory by US pharmaceutical firm Eli Lilly","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Het Amerikaanse farmaciebedrijf Eli Lilly kan voor 3 miljard dollar een medicijnfabriek gaan bouwen in Katwijk.","quote":"De gemeenteraad heeft ingestemd met de vergunningaanvraag","quote_en":"The municipal council has approved the permit application","context":"Het Amerikaanse farmaciebedrijf Eli Lilly kan voor 3 miljard dollar een medicijnfabriek gaan bouwen in Katwijk. De gemeenteraad heeft ingestemd met de vergunningaanvraag. Eli Lilly, een van de grootste farmaceuten ter wereld, wil vlak bij het Valkenburgse Meer in Katwijk diabetes- en afslankpillen gaan produceren. In de fabriek komen zo'n 500 mensen te werken, meldt Omroep West . Eerder op donderdagavond werd al bekend dat er in Katwijk geen referendum gaat komen over de komst van Eli Lilly. Honderden inwoners hadden daarvoor een verzoek ingediend.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The American pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly can build a medicine factory worth 3 billion dollars in Katwijk. The municipal council has approved the permit application. Eli Lilly, one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies, wants to produce diabetes and weight-loss pills near the Valkenburgse Meer in Katwijk. Around 500 people will work at the factory, reports Omroep West.","context_en":"The American pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly can build a medicine factory worth 3 billion dollars in Katwijk. The municipal council has approved the permit application. Eli Lilly, one of the world's largest pharmaceutical companies, wants to produce diabetes and weight-loss pills near the Valkenburgse Meer in Katwijk. Around 500 people will work at the factory, reports Omroep West.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633354","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"be5677676d31","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:49:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MIAMI","what":"El impactante informe sobre el avión de Amazon Air que arrolló a cinco cubanos en Miami","headline":"The shocking report on the Amazon Air plane that ran over five Cubans in Miami","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El avión de Amazon Air que mató a cinco cubanos en Miami en septiembre viajaba a 327 kilómetros por hora segundos antes de aterrizar","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El avión de Amazon Air que mató a cinco cubanos en Miami en septiembre viajaba a 327 kilómetros por hora segundos antes de aterrizar","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Amazon Air plane that killed five Cubans in Miami in September was traveling at 327 kilometers per hour seconds before landing.","context_en":"The Amazon Air plane that killed five Cubans in Miami in September was traveling at 327 kilometers per hour seconds before landing.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/el-impactante-informe-sobre-el-avion-de-amazon-air-que-arrollo-a-cinco-cubanos-en-miami/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/02/us-news/miami-amazon-cargo-plane-crash-pilots-werent-warned-about-wind-ntsb-report/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/us/politics/ntsb-miami-amazon-crash.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"b56a6f56ade6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:48:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Indigenous groups given just 2 months to consult on Pacific Link pipeline designation","headline":"Canada gave Indigenous groups two months to consult on the Pacific Link pipeline designation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The government said it will work over the next year to complete consultations on the project itself, and to secure environmental safeguards, financing and Indigenous partnerships.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The government said it will work over the next year to complete consultations on the project itself, and to secure environmental safeguards, financing and Indigenous partnerships.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12084779/pacific-link-pipeline-indigenous-consultation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f499fb5ddeb0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:43:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"Georgia election board not moving forward with GOP plan to fix election system flaw","headline":"Georgia election board rejected a Republican plan to fix an election system flaw on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New York Post · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Georgia election board not moving forward with GOP plan to fix election system flaw","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/georgia-election-board-not-moving-forward-with-gop-plan-to-fix-election-system-flaw/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eb96bbb9c9f9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:41:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"French investigative site says antisemitic messages tied to Jordan Bardella, Le Pen's ally","headline":"French outlet Mediapart authenticated antisemitic messages from 2013 that Jordan Bardella sent in France and he denied them","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"French investigative outlet Mediapart said on Thursday it had authenticated antisemitic messages allegedly sent by far-right politician Jordan Bardella in 2013.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"French investigative outlet Mediapart said on Thursday it had authenticated antisemitic messages allegedly sent by far-right politician Jordan Bardella in 2013. Bardella denied writing them and said he would sue for defamation and forgery. The allegations come seven months before France’s presidential election, with Marine Le Pen leading opinion polls.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:02000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/france/20261001-jordan-bardella-antisemitic-messages-authenticated-french-outlet","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"34b87d83ec2d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:37:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MICHIGAN","what":"Larry Nassar among thousands of sex offenders removed from Michigan registry","headline":"Michigan removed Larry Nassar and 20,000 other sex offenders from its public registry after the state supreme court ruled","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The state struck 20,000 names from the public database after a ruling by the state’s highest court.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The state struck 20,000 names from the public database after a ruling by the state’s highest court.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2026/10/01/larry-nassar-among-thousands-sex-offenders-removed-michigan-registry/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"040daf458ac6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:36:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Dólar BCV arrancó octubre con un fuerte movimiento alcista que lo acercó al tope de los 870 bolívares","headline":"BCV dollar began October with a strong upward move approaching the 870-bolivar ceiling","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV) actualizó este jueves el tipo de cambio oficial, que regirá hasta el viernes 2 de octubre.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV) actualizó este jueves el tipo de cambio oficial, que regirá hasta el viernes 2 de octubre. Por: lapatilla.com","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) updated this Thursday the official exchange rate that will be in effect until Friday, October 2.","context_en":"The Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) updated this Thursday the official exchange rate that will be in effect until Friday, October 2.","lang":"es","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/dolar-bcv-arranco-octubre-con-un-fuerte-movimiento-alcista-que-lo-acerco-al-tope-de-los-870-bolivares/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c3b6d3ebedd2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:34:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Housing Official, Who Targeted Trump Foes, Cuts Watchdog Office","headline":"Bill Pulte cut the inspector general office at the Federal Housing Finance Agency in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bill Pulte, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, moved to slash his agency’s inspector general’s office.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bill Pulte, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, moved to slash his agency’s inspector general’s office. Democrats called for his resignation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/us/politics/bill-pulte-trump-inspector-general.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"a9fda7a00c7b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:30:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Reuters: Exportaciones de petróleo venezolano disminuyeron en septiembre por altas tarifas de flete","headline":"Reuters: Venezuelan oil exports fell in September due to high freight rates","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las exportaciones de petróleo de Venezuela disminuyeron a 1,08 millones de barriles por día (bpd) en septiembre, respecto a 1,19 millones de bpd del","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las exportaciones de petróleo de Venezuela disminuyeron a 1,08 millones de barriles por día (bpd) en septiembre, respecto a 1,19 millones de bpd del","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Venezuelan oil exports fell to 1.08 million barrels per day (bpd) in September, down from 1.19 million bpd the previous month.","context_en":"Venezuelan oil exports fell to 1.08 million barrels per day (bpd) in September, down from 1.19 million bpd the previous month.","lang":"es","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/reuters-exportaciones-de-petroleo-venezolano-disminuyeron-en-septiembre-por-altas-tarifas-de-flete/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c3cf3d54ee84","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:29:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"EE. UU. confirma a Natasha Franceschi como embajadora en Nicaragua","headline":"U.S. confirms Natasha Franceschi as ambassador to Nicaragua","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Senado de Estados Unidos confirmó a Natasha Franceschi como nueva embajadora en Nicaragua.","quote":"la presión diplomática","quote_en":"diplomatic pressure","context":"El Senado de Estados Unidos confirmó a Natasha Franceschi como nueva embajadora en Nicaragua. La aprobación, dada a conocer el 30 de septiembre de 2026, ocurrió una semana después de que la diplomática compareció ante el Comité de Relaciones Exteriores del Senado, donde prometió que mantendrá “la presión diplomática” sobre el régimen de Daniel Ortega […] La entrada EE. UU. confirma a Natasha Franceschi como embajadora en Nicaragua se publicó primero en Confidencial .","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The U.S. Senate confirmed Natasha Franceschi as the new ambassador to Nicaragua. The approval, made public on September 30, 2026, occurred one week after the diplomat appeared before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where she promised to maintain \"diplomatic pressure\" on the Daniel Ortega regime.","context_en":"The U.S. Senate confirmed Natasha Franceschi as the new ambassador to Nicaragua. The approval, made public on September 30, 2026, occurred one week after the diplomat appeared before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where she promised to maintain \"diplomatic pressure\" on the Daniel Ortega regime.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Confidencial","url":"https://confidencial.digital/noticias/ee-uu-confirma-a-natasha-franceschi-como-embajadora-en-nicaragua/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Divergentes","url":"https://www.divergentes.com/natasha-franceschi-confirmada-como-embajadora-de-estados-unidos-en-nicaragua/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"65465e4c1181","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:22:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"New Report: DSA Policies Would Cost Americans Trillions","headline":"Trump council report says DSA policies would cost 49 trillion dollars in 10 years","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, President Donald J.","quote":"The Real Cost of Socialism in America,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Today, President Donald J. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers released a report revealing the severe economic cost – $49 TRILLION, over $350,000 per household – for American taxpayers over the next ten years if the Democratic Socialists of America’s top policies were adopted. The report titled, “The Real Cost of Socialism in America,” details the scathing reality of their","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$15","sources":[{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/10/new-report-dsa-policies-would-cost-americans-trillions/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"23a028ce12af","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T22:16:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MASSACHUSETTS","what":"Man who allegedly harassed Katie Miller indicted for cyberstalking in Massachusetts","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The man allegedly contacted Katie Miller by phone and text over 40 times in around two months and left \"disturbing messages about the victim and her husband,\" the Justice Department said.","quote":"disturbing messages about the victim and her husband,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The man allegedly contacted Katie Miller by phone and text over 40 times in around two months and left \"disturbing messages about the victim and her husband,\" the Justice Department said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/massachusetts-man-stalking-stephen-miller-katie/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"360831c38b2a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:58:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Pentagon sending more than 4,000 Marines, sailors to Middle East as buildup ramps up","headline":"Centcom sent more than 4,000 Marines and sailors on three warships to the Middle East as the Navy buildup continued","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Pentagon is sending more than 4,000 Marines and sailors aboard three warships to the Middle East as the Navy buildup ramps up in the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Pentagon is sending more than 4,000 Marines and sailors aboard three warships to the Middle East as the Navy buildup ramps up in the U.S. Central Command (Centcom) theater. The USS Makin Island, a Wasp-class amphibious assault ship, the flagship vessel of the amphibious readiness group, was spotted departing San Diego on Monday. The…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/defense/6124637-pentagon-deploys-marines-middle-east/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/mundo/2026/10/02/eeuu-refuerza-su-presencia-militar-en-medio-oriente-con-miles-de-soldados-mientras-trump-evalua-una-nueva-ofensiva-contra-iran/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6eaba6434550","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:57:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MASSACHUSETTS","what":"Judge denies Lindsay Clancy defence motion to find her not guilty","headline":"Judge denies motion to acquit Lindsay Clancy in deaths of her three children in Massachusetts","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The judge in the Lindsay Clancy murder case has refused to declare her not guilty, turning down a defence motion that argued there was not enough evidence to prove she was responsible for killing her three children.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The judge in the Lindsay Clancy murder case has refused to declare her not guilty, turning down a defence motion that argued there was not enough evidence to prove she was responsible for killing her three children.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":{"story":"t-95cfaf2ac3","records":6,"outlets":9},"values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.5014},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$16","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/courts-law/judge-rejects-lindsay-clancys-request-acquittal-after-mistrial?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/lindsay-clancy-defence-not-guilty-evidence-denied-by-judge/107219536","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/lindsay-clancy-motion-finding-not-guilty-denied-weeks-after-mistrial","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6fc9a5f93b28","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:57:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COPENHAGEN","what":"Øresundsbroen er genåbnet efter stor beredskabsøvelse","headline":"Øresund Bridge reopens after major preparedness exercise","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Øresundsbroen er genåbnet efter stor beredskabsøvelse","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Øresund Bridge has reopened after a major preparedness exercise.","context_en":"The Øresund Bridge has reopened after a major preparedness exercise.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/oeresundsbroen-er-genaabnet-efter-stor-beredskabsoevelse","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/oeresundsbroen-spaerres-fra-klokken-20-i-aften-afholder-beredskabsoevelse","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fabef7ac65eb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:53:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Ukraine elects representative to UN Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture for first time","headline":"Ukraine elected Anton Symkovych to the UN Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture for 2027-2030 for the first time","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ukrainian candidate Anton Symkovych has been elected to the UN Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture for 2027-2030, marking the first time Ukraine has had a representative on the body.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukrainian candidate Anton Symkovych has been elected to the UN Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture for 2027-2030, marking the first time Ukraine has had a representative on the body.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/02/8056056/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c17b76c8c708","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:50:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"New Permanent Representative of Kyrgyzstan Presents Credentials","headline":"United States named Brian Williams its United Nations resident coordinator in Kyrgyzstan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The new Permanent Representative of Kyrgyzstan to the United Nations, Aiaz Baetov, presented his credentials to UN Secretary-General António Guterres today.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The new Permanent Representative of Kyrgyzstan to the United Nations, Aiaz Baetov, presented his credentials to UN Secretary-General António Guterres today.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/bio5648.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/sga2442.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7eaf31c086c6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:49:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"White House releases behind-the-scenes photos of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s state visit","headline":"White House released behind the scenes photos from Chinese President Xi Jinping state visit to Washington on September 23 to 25 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Trump welcomed the Chinese President to the White House for events on September 23-25, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Trump welcomed the Chinese President to the White House for events on September 23-25, 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/white-house-releases-behind-the-scenes-photos-of-chinese-president-xi-jinpings-state-visit/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3bb1cec276ec","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:32:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"Lucien Lazare, Jewish Resistance Fighter in Occupied France, Dies at 101","headline":"Lucien Lazare, a Jewish resistance fighter in occupied France, died at 101","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"He and a small troop of French Jews worked with the Allies to distribute supplies and fight the Nazis, ambushing a German train and liberating a city in the south.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"He and a small troop of French Jews worked with the Allies to distribute supplies and fight the Nazis, ambushing a German train and liberating a city in the south.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/world/lucien-lazare-dead.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"48c9d653f8d6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Take off for passengers as government scraps extra charges when flying","headline":"Government ends extra charges for seating children under 14 with parents on flights from October 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"From 2 October 2026, airlines will be required to seat children under the age of 14 with a parent or accompanying adult free of charge.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"From 2 October 2026, airlines will be required to seat children under the age of 14 with a parent or accompanying adult free of charge.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/take-off-for-passengers-as-government-scraps-extra-charges-when-flying","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"92715d252e16","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:26:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW JERSEY","what":"Federal judge dismisses complaint against anti-Israel groups that protested outside NJ synagogue","headline":"A federal judge in New Jersey dismissed a complaint against anti-Israel groups that protested outside a synagogue","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In her ruling, Katharine Hayden wrote that the alleged victims may have interfered with one of the defendant's right to protest.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In her ruling, Katharine Hayden wrote that the alleged victims may have interfered with one of the defendant's right to protest.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/federal-judge-dismisses-complaint-against-anti-israel-groups-that-protested-outside-nj-synagogue","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"596ff876a327","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:25:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Second Committee Opens Eighty-First Session, Approving Organization of Work","headline":"The UN Second Committee opened its 81st session and approved its work programme on trade, development, illicit finance, poverty and technology","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Second Committee (Economic and Financial) opened its eighty-first session today, approving a programme of work covering international trade and development, international cooperation to combat illicit financial fl…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Second Committee (Economic and Financial) opened its eighty-first session today, approving a programme of work covering international trade and development, international cooperation to combat illicit financial flows, poverty eradication and information and communications technology (ICT) for sustainable development.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/gaef3618.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b49e96bfad7c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:18:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Mike Smith, Bubbles on ‘Trailer Park Boys,’ Has Sexual Assault Charge Dismissed","headline":"A Canadian court dismissed a sexual assault charge against Mike Smith, known as Bubbles on Trailer Park Boys, and the show said the 54-year-old would return","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Canadian cult comedy series announced that Mr.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Canadian cult comedy series announced that Mr. Smith, 54, would resume his involvement with the show.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/world/canada/mike-smith-trailer-park-boys-sexual-assault-charge.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"30649de7fda3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:09:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Federal commission approves construction plans for White House visitor screening center","headline":"Federal commission approved construction plans for a White House visitor screening center in Washington on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The center is part of President Donald Trump’s massive overhaul of the White House grounds but one that has garnered little to no opposition.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The center is part of President Donald Trump’s massive overhaul of the White House grounds but one that has garnered little to no opposition.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/trump-national-capital-planning-commission-visitor-screening-center-rcna600921","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3ea9f0e75f6d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:09:30.327Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"US law firm mergers dip through third quarter of 2026","headline":"US law firm mergers fell through the third quarter of 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US law firm mergers dip through third quarter of 2026","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/legal/legalindustry/us-law-firm-mergers-dip-through-third-quarter-2026-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cb7db62b88be","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:09:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Rubio ‘kicked out’ Iranian delegation after UNGA, State Department tells JNS","headline":"State Department said Rubio ordered Iranian delegation to leave after UN General Assembly in New York","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“United Nations General Assembly was over, so it was time for them to go,” the department told JNS.","quote":"United Nations General Assembly was over, so it was time for them to go,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“United Nations General Assembly was over, so it was time for them to go,” the department told JNS.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/rubio-kicked-out-iranian-delegation-after-unga-state-department-tells-jns","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6d6022af5587","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:01:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUBA","what":"Secretary-General Appoints Pablo Ruiz Hiebra of Spain United Nations Resident Coordinator in Cuba","headline":"United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres named Spaniard Pablo Ruiz Hiebra as the UN resident coordinator in Cuba starting 1 October with government approval","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Pablo Ruiz Hiebra of Spain as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Cuba, with the host Government’s approval.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has appointed Pablo Ruiz Hiebra of Spain as the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Cuba, with the host Government’s approval. He takes up his duties on 1 October.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/sga2441.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"790705640e59","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T21:00:37.520Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"TSX hits 10-week low as mining shares fall","headline":"Canada's TSX fell to a 10-week low as mining shares dropped on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"TSX hits 10-week low as mining shares fall","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/tsx-futures-slip-global-bond-rout-pushes-yields-higher-oil-swings-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"869ca768b530","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:57:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Trump, 'potremmo chiedere all'Europa di rilasciare le riserve di diesel'","headline":"Trump: 'We might ask Europe to release its diesel reserves'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lo ha detto ai giornalisti in Texas","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lo ha detto ai giornalisti in Texas","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"He said it to journalists in Texas.","context_en":"He said it to journalists in Texas.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/trump-potremmo-chiedere-alleuropa-di-rilasciare-le-riserve-di-diesel_4420274a-d568-4d2b-94c5-2a32c917805b.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/business/energy/trump-diesel-reserves-europe-ban-rcna600967","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a2b443596396","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:57:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IMO","what":"Imo police confirm abduction of prospective corps members travelling from Ibadan","headline":"Police in Nigeria's Imo state confirmed the abduction of prospective corps members traveling from Ibadan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The abduction comes weeks after another highway attack in which corps members were among people abducted by gunmen in Kogi State.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The abduction comes weeks after another highway attack in which corps members were among people abducted by gunmen in Kogi State.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/913955-imo-police-confirm-abduction-of-prospective-corps-members-travelling-from-ibadan.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"18fdf8289b98","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:50:09.822Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BOLIVIA","what":"Bolivia detains attorney general, government ministry says","headline":"Bolivia detained its attorney general, the government ministry said on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bolivia detains attorney general, government ministry says","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/bolivia-detains-attorney-general-government-ministry-says-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/10/01/bolivia-arrests-its-attorney-general-after-us-accuses-him-narco-corruption/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-bolivia-investiga-narcotrafico-al-fiscal-general-detenido-tras-sanciones-eeuu-1094231.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/bolivia-attorney-general-roger-mariaca-arrested-drug-cartel-ties/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5360530715d1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:49:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Khanna asks AI firms for information on efforts by China to access code","headline":"Ro Khanna asked US AI labs for information on Chinese efforts to access their code in Washington on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The leading Democrat on the House’s select committee to investigate the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is calling on the U.S.’s leading artificial intelligence labs for information on Beijing’s alleged efforts to steal…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The leading Democrat on the House’s select committee to investigate the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is calling on the U.S.’s leading artificial intelligence labs for information on Beijing’s alleged efforts to steal model weights from their firms. Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the House Select Committee on the CCP, requested data Thursday…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/technology/6124282-ro-khanna-ai-theft-investigation-china/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7e57e268f307","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:48:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Press Conference by Security Council President on Work Programme for October","headline":"Greece will chair two big Security Council events in October on children in war and on new technology for sea security","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Security Council will hold two signature events in October — on children and armed conflict and on emerging technologies with an emphasis on maritime security — the representative of Greece, its President for the…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Security Council will hold two signature events in October — on children and armed conflict and on emerging technologies with an emphasis on maritime security — the representative of Greece, its President for the month of October, told correspondents at a Headquarters press conference today.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$17","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/261001_sc.-doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"31393c7032d5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:47:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Mortgage rates surge once again","headline":"Average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 7.28 percent this week","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Welcome to The Hill’s Business & Economy newsletter {beacon} Business & Economy Business & Economy The Big Story Mortgage rates spike again to 7.28 percent The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 7.28 percent…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Welcome to The Hill’s Business & Economy newsletter {beacon} Business & Economy Business & Economy The Big Story Mortgage rates spike again to 7.28 percent The average 30-year fixed mortgage rate rose to 7.28 percent this week, worsening conditions for prospective homebuyers. © Keith Srakocic, Associated Press The average 30-year mortgage rate increased by…","summary":"The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to 7.28 percent in the latest weekly reading. The increase added to pressure on home buyers already facing high borrowing costs. New mortgage applications fell as rates moved closer to a three-year peak.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Mortgage rates have sat above 6 percent for most of the past three years after the Federal Reserve began lifting its benchmark interest rate in March 2022 to fight inflation that reached a 40-year high.\n\nThe average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to 7.28 percent in the week that ended October 2, up from 6.94 percent the week before and the highest level since early August.\n\nThat increase adds roughly $140 a month to the payment on a $300,000 loan and leaves the housing market in its tightest spot since rates first crossed 7 percent in 2023, with buyers facing higher monthly costs while existing homeowners stay locked into rates under 4 percent.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/newsletters/business-economy/6124486-mortgage-rates-surge-once-again/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/10/01/mortgage-rates-housing-sales","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"40656728fcc4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:39:44.924Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"ConocoPhillips signs 20-year LNG deal with Venture Global","headline":"ConocoPhillips signed a 20-year LNG supply deal with Venture Global on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ConocoPhillips signs 20-year LNG deal with Venture Global","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/conocophillips-signs-20-year-lng-deal-with-venture-global-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3f17d024deab","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:34:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"NASA Awards Enterprise Logistics Support Services Agreements","headline":"NASA picked 16 companies for new $1.4 billion logistics support agreements in the United States","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA selected 16 companies to provide Enterprise Logistics Support Services under new agreements that will standardize requirements, improve reporting, and streamline the management of costs and resources.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA selected 16 companies to provide Enterprise Logistics Support Services under new agreements that will standardize requirements, improve reporting, and streamline the management of costs and resources. The $1.4 billion blanket purchase agreements will support equipment and property management, transportation, disposal, product support, flight hardware support operations, equipment maintenance and repair, export control, move operations,","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-awards-enterprise-logistics-support-services-agreements/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b5d3033cb663","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:30:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"New York grapples with kinks in $1B Medicaid system","headline":"New York began moving more than 147000 Medicaid and Medicare Savings Program enrollees to a new case management system a year ago","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"WORKING OUT THE KINKS: New York’s Department of Health began transitioning more than 147,000 Medicaid and Medicare Savings Program enrollees to an upgraded case management system about a year ago.","quote":"I’m not saying the new system shouldn’t be in place,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"WORKING OUT THE KINKS: New York’s Department of Health began transitioning more than 147,000 Medicaid and Medicare Savings Program enrollees to an upgraded case management system about a year ago. Since then, state officials say only a third of them have been able to automatically renew their coverage without assistance. The shift is part of a $1.1 billion contract aimed at creating an automated system for Medicaid enrollees to receive real-time determinations on their eligibility for the two programs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/newsletters/new-york-playbook-pm/2026/10/01/new-york-grapples-with-kinks-in-1b-medicaid-system-01103951","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d4fdf553a373","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:15:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MONTENEGRO","what":"Iranian accused of hacking American universities extradited from Montenegro","headline":"Iran extradited an Iranian man accused by the US of hacking dozens of American universities for academic data and intellectual property from Montenegro","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Iranian national accused by the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Iranian national accused by the U.S. of taking part in dozens of breaches involving the theft of academic data and intellectual property has been extradited from Montenegro.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/iran-montenegro-hacker-extradition","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"adbddf868874","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:14:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"Airtel Money sets IPO price at £1.96 per share, targets £5.3bn valuation","headline":"Airtel Africa set the IPO price for Airtel Money at 1.96 pounds per share for a 5.3 billion pound valuation in London","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Airtel Africa said it does not expect to sell its existing Airtel Money shares in the offer, except pursuant to the over-allotment option.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Airtel Africa said it does not expect to sell its existing Airtel Money shares in the offer, except pursuant to the over-allotment option.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/business/business-news/913925-airtel-money-sets-ipo-price-at-1-96-per-share-targets-5-3bn-valuation.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9a21c8d9bc89","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:07:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SCOTLAND","what":"Kentucky Guardsmen Sharpen Capabilities Alongside NATO Partners","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Airmen assigned to the Kentucky Air National Guard enhanced their global capabilities while training alongside NATO partners from the United Kingdom and Canada in Scotland this summer.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Airmen assigned to the Kentucky Air National Guard enhanced their global capabilities while training alongside NATO partners from the United Kingdom and Canada in Scotland this summer.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4616828/kentucky-guardsmen-sharpen-capabilities-alongside-nato-partners/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa520de2dcb2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T20:06:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Internal email points to Kennedy Center's continued closure","headline":"An internal email said the Kennedy Center in Washington would stay closed during a safety review","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The center's executive director says the building will \"remain temporarily closed\" pending an ongoing safety assessment.","quote":"remain temporarily closed","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The center's executive director says the building will \"remain temporarily closed\" pending an ongoing safety assessment.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Politics/internal-email-points-kennedy-centers-continued-closure/story?id=136925836","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27dd3ffc4c12","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:44:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Federal Reserve vice chair says it ‘may take more time’ before hiking rates again","headline":"Federal Reserve Vice Chair Philip Jefferson said on Thursday that the central bank may need more time to evaluate economic data before it raises interest rates again","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Federal Reserve Vice Chair Philip Jefferson said Thursday the central bank will wait to evaluate incoming economic data before deciding whether to hike interest rates again.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Federal Reserve Vice Chair Philip Jefferson said Thursday the central bank will wait to evaluate incoming economic data before deciding whether to hike interest rates again. “As we look ahead, my view is that any future adjustments in policy should be determined by carefully examining trends in the data, the evolving outlook, and the balance…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/business/6124140-federal-reserves-future-inflation-hikes-jefferson/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"672f07007bcf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:41:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"California attorney general subpoenas OpenAI over cyber incidents","headline":"California Attorney General Rob Bonta served OpenAI with a subpoena in a probe of its cybersecurity incidents on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"California Attorney General Rob Bonta (D) said Thursday he served OpenAI with a subpoena as part of a probe into cybersecurity incidents involving the ChatGPT maker.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"California Attorney General Rob Bonta (D) said Thursday he served OpenAI with a subpoena as part of a probe into cybersecurity incidents involving the ChatGPT maker. Bonta previously opened an investigation into the company after its AI agents hacked into the tech startup Hugging Face. But he said the recent subpoena was part of a…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/technology/6124245-openai-subpoena-rob-bonta-california/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"19e0419165d1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:38:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ABUJA","what":"2027: NRM inaugurates 38-member presidential campaign council, unveils 6-pillar agenda","headline":"Nigeria's National Rescue Movement inaugurated a 38-member presidential campaign council for 2027 and unveiled a 6-pillar agenda","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"2027: NRM inaugurates 38-member presidential campaign council, unveils 6-pillar agenda By Emmanuel Oloniruha The National Rescue Movement (NRM) has inaugurated a 38-member Presidential Campaign Council for the 2027 ge…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"2027: NRM inaugurates 38-member presidential campaign council, unveils 6-pillar agenda By Emmanuel Oloniruha The National Rescue Movement (NRM) has inaugurated a 38-member Presidential Campaign Council for the 2027 general elections with Muhammad… News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/2027-nrm-inaugurates-38-member-presidential-campaign-council-unveils-6-pillar-agenda/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9aaae8b0b01f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:35:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KINSHASA","what":"La SNEL annonce une centrale flottante de 143 mégawatts pour renforcer la fourniture d’électricité à Kinshasa","headline":"SNEL announces a 143-megawatt floating power plant to boost electricity supply to Kinshasa","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Société nationale d’électricité (SNEL) prévoit de recourir à une centrale flottante pour renforcer la fourniture d’électricité à Kinshasa et dans les provinces environnantes.","quote":"Le projet devrait permettre d’injecter une puissance supplémentaire dans le réseau de la capitale","quote_en":"The project should allow additional power to be injected into the capital’s grid","context":"La Société nationale d’électricité (SNEL) prévoit de recourir à une centrale flottante pour renforcer la fourniture d’électricité à Kinshasa et dans les provinces environnantes. Le projet devrait permettre d’injecter une puissance supplémentaire dans le réseau de la capitale, selon le directeur général de la SNEL, Teddy Lwamba. Il l’a annoncé jeudi 1er octobre à Kinshasa, lors d’un briefing de presse coanimé avec le ministre de la Communication et Médias, Patrick Muyaya.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Société nationale d’électricité (SNEL) plans to use a floating power plant to strengthen electricity supply to Kinshasa and surrounding provinces. The project should allow additional power to be injected into the capital’s grid, according to SNEL Director General Teddy Lwamba.","context_en":"The Société nationale d’électricité (SNEL) plans to use a floating power plant to strengthen electricity supply to Kinshasa and surrounding provinces. The project should allow additional power to be injected into the capital’s grid, according to SNEL Director General Teddy Lwamba.","lang":"fr","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/societe/la-snel-annonce-une-centrale-flottante-de-143-megawatts-pour-renforcer","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/societe/la-snel-lance-le-recouvrement-force-des-factures-impayees-kinshasa-des","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0dd6fb1dc97f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:33:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TENNESSEE","what":"Terdoodveroordeelde Christa Pike na 'marteling' in kritieke toestand, zegt advocaat","headline":"Death row inmate Christa Pike in critical condition after 'torture', says lawyer","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De terdoodveroordeelde Christa Pike verkeert in kritieke toestand en krijgt \"levensreddende medische zorg\", heeft een van haar advocaten, Randy Spivey, bekendgemaakt.","quote":"levensreddende medische zorg","quote_en":"life-saving medical care","context":"De terdoodveroordeelde Christa Pike verkeert in kritieke toestand en krijgt \"levensreddende medische zorg\", heeft een van haar advocaten, Randy Spivey, bekendgemaakt. De 50-jarige Amerikaanse vrouw zou gisteren in de staat Tennessee geëxecuteerd worden, maar dat mislukte dramatisch. Spivey omschrijft de executie als \"marteling\". Pikes advocaat zegt dat hij nog geen duidelijk beeld heeft over haar huidige gezondheidstoestand en prognose. Ze wordt in het ziekenhuis in Nashville behandeld. Pike werd in 1995 als 18-jarige veroordeeld voor de moord op de 19-jarige Colleen Slemmer.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Death row inmate Christa Pike is in critical condition and receiving \"life-saving medical care\", one of her lawyers, Randy Spivey, has announced. The 50-year-old American woman was to be executed yesterday in the state of Tennessee, but it failed dramatically.","context_en":"Death row inmate Christa Pike is in critical condition and receiving \"life-saving medical care\", one of her lawyers, Randy Spivey, has announced. The 50-year-old American woman was to be executed yesterday in the state of Tennessee, but it failed dramatically.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$18","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2026/10/01/tennessee-pledges-investigation-after-botching-second-execution-this-year/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/courts-law/christa-pikes-attorneys-says-inmate-critical-condition-after-botched?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/10/01/us/tennessee-executions-christa-pike-lee-review.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/christa-pike-critical-condition-failed-execution-tennessee-lawyers-say-rcna600992","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/tennessee-halts-executions-after-failed-attempt-to-execute-christa-pike/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/what-to-know-christa-pike-first-woman-executed-tennessee-200-years/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633325","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/attorneys-say-christa-pike-is-receiving-life-saving-care-after-failed-execution/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/local/nashville/2026/10/01/christa-pike-alive-after-failed-execution","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6121917-supreme-court-crista-pike-execution-tennessee/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"SCOTUSblog","url":"https://www.scotusblog.com/2026/09/supreme-court-allows-for-execution-of-only-woman-on-tennessees-death-row/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/us/tennessee-due-execute-woman-first-time-two-centuries-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/estados-unidos/2026/10/01/el-gobernador-de-tennessee-suspendio-las-ejecuciones-de-2026-tras-el-caso-fallido-de-christa-pike-y-pidio-una-investigacion-exhaustiva/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/supreme-court-clears-way-teen-killers-execution-after-last-minute-reprieve","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/world/us-tennessee-christa-pike-hospital-failed-execution-6423586","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/christa-pike-still-alive-snoring-after-2-lethal-injections-as-chaos-envelops-tennessee-execution-lawyer/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4599de8ef935","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:32:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BALTIC SEA","what":"Marines to Support NATO Security Initiative in Baltic Sea","headline":"US Marines redirected to the Baltic Sea to support NATO Baltic Sentry vigilance activity","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A specialized team of Marines deployed to Europe will be redirected to the Baltic Sea region to support the NATO-led enhanced vigilance activity Baltic Sentry.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A specialized team of Marines deployed to Europe will be redirected to the Baltic Sea region to support the NATO-led enhanced vigilance activity Baltic Sentry.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4616721/marines-to-support-nato-security-initiative-in-baltic-sea/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5881d90b212f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:23:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ABUJA","what":"2027 Hajj: Saudi Arabia approves additional 10,000 slots for Nigeria","headline":"Saudi Arabia gave Nigeria 10,000 more Hajj slots for 2027","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"2027 Hajj: Saudi Arabia approves additional 10,000 slots for Nigeria By Deji ​‌‍‌​⁠‍⁠⁠‌⁠⁠⁠​‌⁠‌‌‌​Abdulwahab The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) says the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has approved an additional…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"2027 Hajj: Saudi Arabia approves additional 10,000 slots for Nigeria By Deji ​‌‍‌​⁠‍⁠⁠‌⁠⁠⁠​‌⁠‌‌‌​Abdulwahab The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) says the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has approved an additional 10,000 Hajj slots for… News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/2027-hajj-saudi-arabia-approves-additional-10000-slots-for-nigeria/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ba90a8330a45","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:19:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"Fires break out at French schools as students protest nationwide","headline":"Fires broke out at schools in France as students protested nationwide conditions","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The French government holds a crisis meeting as demonstrations grow and become violent in places.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The French government holds a crisis meeting as demonstrations grow and become violent in places.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6d080d1e3l4o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/france-hundreds-arrested-as-student-protests-escalate/a-79495633?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NIUS","url":"https://nius.de/ausland/frankreich-festnahmen-gewalttaetige-schulproteste","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/students-face-riot-police-as-protests-over-school-conditions-escalate-in-france","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/france/20261002-hundreds-of-french-schools-remain-closed-as-student-protests-turn-violent","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/about-400-french-schools-closed-some-student-protests-turn-violent-2026-10-02/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20261001-teens-block-high-schools-across-france-demand-better-conditions","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/over-400-anholdt-under-demonstrationer-i-frankrig","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/world/europe/france-student-protest-arrests.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633226","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e756e589143b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:17:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Per direct geen meta-brillen meer te koop bij Hans Anders","headline":"Hans Anders immediately stops selling Meta smart glasses","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Hans Anders stopt per direct met de verkoop van camerabrillen van Meta.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Hans Anders stopt per direct met de verkoop van camerabrillen van Meta. Dat bevestigt het bedrijf aan persbureau ANP na berichtgeving door het AD . De reden is de onrust die is ontstaan over de privacyrisico's van de brillen. Hans Anders wil de discussie over de slimme brillen afwachten, en besluit dan of en hoe de brillen weer verkocht gaan worden. De Meta-bril lijkt op een normale bril, maar heeft een ingebouwde camera en een AI-assistent. Hij is sinds september 2025 in Nederland te koop, onder andere bij opticiens.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Hans Anders has stopped selling Meta camera glasses with immediate effect. The company confirmed this to news agency ANP following a report by the AD. The reason is the unrest that has arisen over the privacy risks of the glasses. Hans Anders wants to await the discussion about the smart glasses and will then decide whether and how the glasses will be sold again.","context_en":"Hans Anders has stopped selling Meta camera glasses with immediate effect. The company confirmed this to news agency ANP following a report by the AD. The reason is the unrest that has arisen over the privacy risks of the glasses. Hans Anders wants to await the discussion about the smart glasses and will then decide whether and how the glasses will be sold again.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633322","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e147e7e1fc35","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:14:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEN HAAG","what":"Kabinet zit woensdag weer om tafel met bonden en werkgevers na maanden uitstel","headline":"Cabinet meets unions and employers again on Wednesday after months of delay","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Aanstaande woensdag zitten de vakbonden en werkgevers voor het eerst sinds maanden weer met het kabinet aan tafel om te praten over de toekomst van de sociale zekerheid.","quote":"We moeten niet wachten tot mensen langdurig uitvallen, maar dat voorkomen","quote_en":"We must not wait until people drop out long-term, but prevent that","context":"Aanstaande woensdag zitten de vakbonden en werkgevers voor het eerst sinds maanden weer met het kabinet aan tafel om te praten over de toekomst van de sociale zekerheid. Het kabinet heeft zes organisaties uitgenodigd, VNO-NCW, MKB NL, LTO, FNV, CNV en VCP, om woensdag naar het Catshuis te komen. Namens het kabinet komen premier Jetten en de drie meestbetrokken ministers Vijlbrief (Sociale Zaken), Aartsen (Werk en Participatie) en Herbert (Economische Zaken). De vakbonden FNV en CNV komen naar Den Haag, zo laten de organisaties weten.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Next Wednesday the trade unions and employers will sit down with the cabinet for the first time in months to discuss the future of social security. The cabinet has invited six organisations — VNO-NCW, MKB NL, LTO, FNV, CNV and VCP — to come to the Catshuis.","context_en":"Next Wednesday the trade unions and employers will sit down with the cabinet for the first time in months to discuss the future of social security. The cabinet has invited six organisations — VNO-NCW, MKB NL, LTO, FNV, CNV and VCP — to come to the Catshuis.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633321","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"259f9e2c9ac0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:08:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Ukrainian foreign minister outlines agreements with Hungary: education law changes to be considered","headline":"Ukraine considered changes to its education law for national minorities to advance EU progress with Hungary","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha says Kyiv is considering changes to education legislation affecting national minorities as part of efforts to unblock Ukraine's further progress towards the European Union.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha says Kyiv is considering changes to education legislation affecting national minorities as part of efforts to unblock Ukraine's further progress towards the European Union.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056046/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"22fc4f1a74c9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:07:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CURACAO","what":"Former federal minister De-Anne Kelly revealed as co-founder of offshore casino","headline":"Former federal minister De-Anne Kelly co-founded the LuckyBet offshore casino in Curacao","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Leaked documents from a Caribbean gambling regulator reveal Ms Kelly as a co-founder of LuckyBet casino.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Leaked documents from a Caribbean gambling regulator reveal Ms Kelly as a co-founder of LuckyBet casino.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/former-minister-de-anne-kelly-co-founded-offshore-casino/107197106","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1c3ab717f9ea","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:03:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Uitspraken Van Weel over Bolle Jos wekken ergernis in Brussel","headline":"Van Weel statements on Bolle Jos cause irritation in Brussels","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Opmerkingen van minister Van Weel over het stopzetten van betalingen aan Sierra Leone leiden tot irritatie binnen de Europese Commissie.","quote":"hard op terug te duwen","quote_en":"push back hard","context":"Opmerkingen van minister Van Weel over het stopzetten van betalingen aan Sierra Leone leiden tot irritatie binnen de Europese Commissie. De minister zei vanmorgen dat de betalingen vanuit de Commissie zijn stopgezet omdat Sierra Leone niet meewerkt aan de uitlevering van drugscrimineel Bolle Jos. De NOS kreeg te horen dat binnen de Europese Commissie werd besloten hier \"hard op terug te duwen\". Uit gesprekken komt naar voren dat het besluit officieel een puur technische kwestie was, dat naar buiten niet gepresenteerd zou moeten worden als een sanctie tegen de machthebbers in Sierra Leone.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Remarks by Minister Van Weel about halting payments to Sierra Leone have caused irritation within the European Commission. The minister said this morning that the Commission stopped the payments because Sierra Leone is not cooperating on the extradition of drug criminal Bolle Jos.","context_en":"Remarks by Minister Van Weel about halting payments to Sierra Leone have caused irritation within the European Commission. The minister said this morning that the Commission stopped the payments because Sierra Leone is not cooperating on the extradition of drug criminal Bolle Jos.","lang":"nl","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633319","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"554b78958aca","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T19:01:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRITISH COLUMBIA","what":"BC Conservatives support is up while BC NDP tumble, poll says","headline":"Support for BC Conservatives rose to 42 per cent while BC NDP fell to 40 per cent in Canada poll","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Ipsos poll shows that support for the BC Conservatives is at 42 per cent, up seven, while the BC NDP support is at 40 per cent, which is down five.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Ipsos poll shows that support for the BC Conservatives is at 42 per cent, up seven, while the BC NDP support is at 40 per cent, which is down five.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12084298/bc-conservatives-support-up-bc-ndp-lead-past-two-weeks-gone-ipsos-poll/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d922031f186b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:59:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Amber Guyger, ex-police officer, granted parole after Botham Jean murder conviction","headline":"Ex-police officer Amber Guyger won parole after her 2018 murder conviction for fatally shooting neighbor Botham Jean in his Texas apartment","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Guyger was sentenced to 10 years in prison for fatally shooting Jean, her neighbor, after walking into his apartment in 2018.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Guyger was sentenced to 10 years in prison for fatally shooting Jean, her neighbor, after walking into his apartment in 2018.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/amber-guyger-ex-dallas-police-officer-granted-parole-botham-jean-murde-rcna600983","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e2ed16a270aa","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:45:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEL AVIV","what":"Israelis honoured for landing plane with 'close to zero' survival chance","headline":"Israel honoured five citizens for landing a Flydubai plane with almost no chance of survival in Tel Aviv on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Israel recognises five of its citizens who helped prevent a flydubai plane crash on Wednesday as it calls for the pilot who allegedly caused the midair altercation to be extradited.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Israel recognises five of its citizens who helped prevent a flydubai plane crash on Wednesday as it calls for the pilot who allegedly caused the midair altercation to be extradited.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":3,"top":true,"topSim":0.559},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-02/israelis-recognised-with-heroism-for-averting-flydubai-crash/107218792","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7207df64582b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:44:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"UK police make another arrest in RAF Fairford case","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Counter terrorism police said a dual UK-Iranian national was arrested on suspicion of preparing terrorist acts.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Counter terrorism police said a dual UK-Iranian national was arrested on suspicion of preparing terrorist acts. Five men arrested on Sunday remain on bail.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/uk-police-arrest-6th-suspect-on-suspicion-of-preparing-terrorist-acts-in-raf-fairford-incident/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/uk-police-make-another-arrest-in-raf-fairford-case/a-79508050?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBN News","url":"http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/world/2026/september/5-men-arrested-near-uk-air-base-used-by-us-in-iran-war-on-suspicion-of-preparing-a-terrorist-act","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a359bc1c9393","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:32:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IRAQ","what":"Iraq withdrawal is being discussed","headline":"Iraq withdrawal is being discussed","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"R370","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The end of the long stay by foreign forces in Iraq is being discussed. People say crowds gathered to mark the day the last troops left. Some say soldiers marched in the capital to show the change.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The end of the long stay by foreign forces in Iraq is being discussed. People say crowds gathered to mark the day the last troops left. Some say soldiers marched in the capital to show the change.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"R² Reports","url":"https://www.youtube.com/shorts/_qZySBxC7Ic","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"623cf0d4c04e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:29:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Ninth Circuit Leaves Resolution Copper Ruling in Place","headline":"Ninth Circuit upheld its ruling on Arizona copper land swap","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"On Tuesday, the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"On Tuesday, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit rejected all petitions for rehearing in cases challenging a land exchange that is necessary for the Resolution Copper project in Arizona. The order leaves in place the March 13 decision by the court’s panel, which allowed the federal government to proceed with a congressionally mandated land exchange crucial to advancing development of one of the largest known copper deposits in the world.","summary":"The US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit turned down all requests to hear the case again. This leaves its March 13 decision in place. That ruling lets the federal government go ahead with a land swap needed for the Resolution Copper project in Arizona. The swap is meant to help develop one of the biggest copper deposits in the world.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.4464},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$19","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/ninth-circuit-leaves-resolution-copper-ruling-place","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2ec62914eeda","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:27:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"Scheepsbouwer Damen wil miljarden van Duitse overheid voor schrappen order","headline":"Shipbuilder Damen demands billions from German government for cancelled order","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Scheepsbouwer Damen eist een schadevergoeding van bijna 4,7 miljard euro van de Duitse regering voor het schrappen van de order voor fregatten.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Scheepsbouwer Damen eist een schadevergoeding van bijna 4,7 miljard euro van de Duitse regering voor het schrappen van de order voor fregatten. Dat staat in een brief van de advocaat van Damen, ingezien door de NOS. Eerder bleek al dat Damen Schelde Naval Shipbuilding, de volledige naam van het bedrijf, een vergoeding van de Duitsers wil. Nu blijkt uit de brief dat dit om miljarden gaat. Het bedrag wordt niet door Damen bevestigd, wel zegt het bedrijf de brief te hebben gestuurd. Eind juni annuleerde de Duitse minister van Defensie, Boris Pistorius, de bestelling van zes fregatten.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Shipbuilder Damen is demanding nearly 4.7 billion euros in compensation from the German government for the cancellation of an order for frigates. This is according to a letter from Damen's lawyer that was reviewed by NOS. The German Defence Minister Boris Pistorius cancelled the order for six frigates at the end of June.","context_en":"Shipbuilder Damen is demanding nearly 4.7 billion euros in compensation from the German government for the cancellation of an order for frigates. This is according to a letter from Damen's lawyer that was reviewed by NOS. The German Defence Minister Boris Pistorius cancelled the order for six frigates at the end of June.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633317","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c4ac07f6c2f3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:27:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Zelenskyy promotes five military officers to brigadier general on Defenders’ Day","headline":"Zelenskyy promoted five Ukrainian officers to brigadier general on Defenders Day in Ukraine","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has promoted five Ukrainian military officers to brigadier general, including senior officials from the Security Service, National Guard and State Border Guard Service.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has promoted five Ukrainian military officers to brigadier general, including senior officials from the Security Service, National Guard and State Border Guard Service.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056042/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"94a424af2a8e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:16:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHINA","what":"Researchers find Chinese hacking campaigns targeting AI firms, Asian governments","headline":"Researchers found Chinese hacking campaigns that targeted AI firms and Asian governments","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two separate reports by cybersecurity companies highlight China-linked hacking operations, including a phishing campaign that impersonated Western experts.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two separate reports by cybersecurity companies highlight China-linked hacking operations, including a phishing campaign that impersonated Western experts.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/china-linked-phishing-scheme-backdoor-taiwan","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cc877f2c4cdb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:13:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"NATO Secretary General: Europe is not at peace today","headline":"NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte said Europe is not at peace today with full-blown war in Ukraine and growing Russian hybrid attacks","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte has stated that Europe is not at peace today as it faces a full-blown war in Ukraine and growing Russian hybrid attacks.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NATO Secretary General Mark Rutte has stated that Europe is not at peace today as it faces a full-blown war in Ukraine and growing Russian hybrid attacks.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056040/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a6a1d6d1ab14","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:05:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"NASA’s SpaceX Crew-13 Launches","headline":"SpaceX rocket carried four astronauts toward the space station from Florida on Oct 1 2026","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In this Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In this Oct. 1, 2026, photo, a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket and Dragon spacecraft launch from Space Launch Complex 40 at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. The spacecraft is carrying NASA astronauts Jessica Watkins and Luke Delaney, CSA (Canadian Space Agency) astronaut Joshua Kutryk, and Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergey Teteryatnikov to the International Space Station for a","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1a","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/image-article/nasas-spacex-crew-13-launches/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasas-spacex-crew-13-launches-to-international-space-station/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa8c9687b532","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:04:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Justice Department Finds UCLA Law School Discriminates Based on Race in Admissions","headline":"The Justice Department found UCLA Law School discriminated against white and Asian students in admissions for its 2023, 2024 and 2025 classes","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division announced today investigative findings that the University of California-Los Angeles School of Law (UCLA Law) discriminated against white and Asian students in granting a…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division announced today investigative findings that the University of California-Los Angeles School of Law (UCLA Law) discriminated against white and Asian students in granting admission to its 2023, 2024, and 2025 incoming classes. UCLA Law’s discriminatory conduct violates Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race or color, and the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2023 decision in Students for Fair Admissions v. Harvard ( SFFA ), which banned race discrimination in admissions.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6124974-doj-accuses-ucla-law-discrimination/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-finds-ucla-law-school-discriminates-based-race-admissions","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c98ae967fdf4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:02:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IRAN","what":"Speakers in General Assembly Diverge over Veto Use in Security Council to Block Renewal of Iran Sanctions Panel amid Dispute over ‘Snapback’","headline":"Russian and Chinese vetoes in the Security Council blocked renewal of the Iran sanctions panel in a General Assembly debate","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Pursuant to its veto initiative, speakers in the General Assembly today weighed in on the vetoes recently cast by China and the Russian Federation concerning a Security Council resolution that would have extended the…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pursuant to its veto initiative, speakers in the General Assembly today weighed in on the vetoes recently cast by China and the Russian Federation concerning a Security Council resolution that would have extended the mandate of the Panel of Experts tasked with monitoring implementation of United Nations sanctions on Iran.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/ga12792.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/despite-these-vetoes-of-the-panel-of-experts-mandate-un-sanctions-on-iranian-proliferation-remain-fully-in-force-uk-statement-at-the-un-general-assemb","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f82c1e47f570","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:02:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Major General Deliatytskyi hands over command of 30th Marine Corps to lead Ukrainian Marine Corps","headline":"Major General Deliatytskyi handed over command of the 30th Marine Corps in Ukraine to lead the Ukrainian Marine Corps","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Major General Dmytro Deliatytskyi has handed over command of the 30th Marine Corps and will continue serving as Commander of the Ukrainian Navy’s Marine Corps.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Major General Dmytro Deliatytskyi has handed over command of the 30th Marine Corps and will continue serving as Commander of the Ukrainian Navy’s Marine Corps.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056038/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"af33325f861e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:00:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Rivieren staan nu zo laag dat schippers zelf moeten inschatten of varen nog lukt","headline":"Rivers are now so low that skippers must judge for themselves whether sailing is still possible","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De waterstanden in het oosten van Nederland zijn nu zo laag dat het onduidelijk is of schepen er nog wel kunnen varen.","quote":"Dit is erg zorgelijk","quote_en":"This is very worrying","context":"De waterstanden in het oosten van Nederland zijn nu zo laag dat het onduidelijk is of schepen er nog wel kunnen varen. Op de IJssel, de Nederrijn en een groot deel van de Waal kan niet meer goed gemeten worden of er nog veilig gevaren kan worden. Dat zegt Rijkswaterstaat tegen de NOS. Binnenvaartschippers zullen hier nu zelf moeten bepalen of ze veilig kunnen varen of niet. Ook op het Pannerdensch Kanaal speelt het probleem. Het is op sommige plekken nu ondieper dan 125 centimeter en de meeste vaartuigen waarmee Rijkswaterstaat metingen doet liggen dieper.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Water levels in the east of the Netherlands are now so low that it is unclear whether ships can still sail there. On the IJssel, the Nederrijn and a large part of the Waal it can no longer be properly measured whether it is still safe to sail. That is what Rijkswaterstaat tells NOS. Inland skippers will now have to decide for themselves whether they can sail safely or not. The problem also occurs","context_en":"Water levels in the east of the Netherlands are now so low that it is unclear whether ships can still sail there. On the IJssel, the Nederrijn and a large part of the Waal it can no longer be properly measured whether it is still safe to sail. That is what Rijkswaterstaat tells NOS. Inland skippers will now have to decide for themselves whether they can sail safely or not. The problem also occurs","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633314","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"10ffce6e97f7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RUSSIA","what":"Putin calls proposals for mutual halt to strikes on ships and oil refineries absurd","headline":"Putin called proposals for a mutual halt to strikes on ships and oil refineries absurd in Russia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russian leader Vladimir Putin has described a proposal not to strike Ukrainian ships if Ukraine refrains from striking Russian oil refineries as absurd.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russian leader Vladimir Putin has described a proposal not to strike Ukrainian ships if Ukraine refrains from striking Russian oil refineries as absurd.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056036/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"73d594cf9ada","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T18:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PONTEVEDRA","what":"El presidente del Gobierno reivindica el orden desde \"los valores del avance y del progreso\"","headline":"Government president calls for order from 'the values of progress and advancement'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Illa da Toxa (Pontevedra), jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 Pedro S&aacute;nchez ha pedido a los grupos parlamentarios \"altura de miras\" para convalidar ma&ntilde;ana los decretos sobre vivienda en el Congreso y ha destaca…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Illa da Toxa (Pontevedra), jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 Pedro S&aacute;nchez ha pedido a los grupos parlamentarios \"altura de miras\" para convalidar ma&ntilde;ana los decretos sobre vivienda en el Congreso y ha destacado la prolongaci&oacute;n de la protecci&oacute;n a familias y empresas frente a la subida de precios por la guerra de Ir&aacute;n.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In Illa da Toxa (Pontevedra) on Thursday 1 October 2026, Pedro Sánchez asked parliamentary groups for 'height of vision' to approve the housing decrees in Congress tomorrow and highlighted the extension of protection for families and businesses against price rises caused by the war in Iran.","context_en":"In Illa da Toxa (Pontevedra) on Thursday 1 October 2026, Pedro Sánchez asked parliamentary groups for 'height of vision' to approve the housing decrees in Congress tomorrow and highlighted the extension of protection for families and businesses against price rises caused by the war in Iran.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Moncloa","url":"https://www.lamoncloa.gob.es/presidente/actividades/Paginas/2026/011026-sanchez-foro-latoja.aspx?qfr=1","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7fade7aa3ec0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:51:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEN OEVER","what":"Nieuw gemaal Afsluitdijk: elke 9 seconden een zwembad vol water uit het IJsselmeer","headline":"New Afsluitdijk pumping station: a swimming pool full of water every 9 seconds from the IJsselmeer","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bij de Afsluitdijk is een van de grootste gemalen van Europa geopend.","quote":"De zeespiegel stijgt en de aanvoer vanuit de rivieren richting het IJsselmeer wordt steeds grilliger. Het wordt dus steeds moeilijker om het peil, met bestaande middelen, te beheersen.","quote_en":"Sea levels are rising and the supply from the rivers to the IJsselmeer is becoming increasingly erratic. So it is becoming increasingly difficult to control the water level with existing means.","context":"Bij de Afsluitdijk is een van de grootste gemalen van Europa geopend. Het nieuwe complex met zes pompen van elk bijna 12 meter hoog moet overstromingen voorkomen. Het gemaal bij de Afsluitdijk bij Den Oever is onderdeel van grootschalige renovatie- en versterkingswerkzaamheden van de Afsluitdijk die al jaren bezig zijn. Spuien Het IJsselmeer dient als een van de belangrijkste zoetwaterbuffers van Nederland. In principe is het de bedoeling om zo veel mogelijk water in het IJsselmeer vast te houden.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"One of the largest pumping stations in Europe has been opened at the Afsluitdijk. The new complex with six pumps, each almost 12 meters high, is intended to prevent flooding. The pumping station at Den Oever is part of large-scale renovation and reinforcement work on the Afsluitdijk that has been underway for years.","context_en":"One of the largest pumping stations in Europe has been opened at the Afsluitdijk. The new complex with six pumps, each almost 12 meters high, is intended to prevent flooding. The pumping station at Den Oever is part of large-scale renovation and reinforcement work on the Afsluitdijk that has been underway for years.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633312","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"012dc9538eee","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:50:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Teen faces sentencing after pleading guilty to trying sex act with Shetland pony","headline":"A 19-year-old man pleaded guilty to trying a sex act with a Shetland pony on a farm and now faces sentencing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 19-year-old faces sentencing after pleading guilty to attempting to commit a sexual act on a Shetland pony on a farm.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 19-year-old faces sentencing after pleading guilty to attempting to commit a sexual act on a Shetland pony on a farm.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/world-news/teenager-faces-jail-after-pleading-guilty-to-attempting-sexual-act-with-shetland-pony/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"14980101d85c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:48:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEMPHIS","what":"Three Members of Violent Memphis Street Gang Sentenced for Attempted Murder in Aid of Racketeering and Firearm Charges","headline":"Gangs from Memphis received over 42 years in prison on federal racketeering charges for a gang-related attempted murder and firearms violations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Three members of the Unknown Vice Lords (UVL), a violent street gang in Memphis, Tennessee, were sentenced to a total of over 42 years in prison for conspiring and attempting to commit a gang-related murder and firear…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Three members of the Unknown Vice Lords (UVL), a violent street gang in Memphis, Tennessee, were sentenced to a total of over 42 years in prison for conspiring and attempting to commit a gang-related murder and firearms violations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/three-members-violent-memphis-street-gang-sentenced-attempted-murder-aid-racketeering-and","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8384ca7daef2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:48:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ROME","what":"Il Presidente Meloni all'80° Anniversario della CNA","headline":"Prime Minister Meloni at the 80th Anniversary of CNA","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, questo pomeriggio ha tenuto un intervento presso l’Auditorium Antonianum di Roma, all’evento celebrativo organizzato in occasione dell’80° anniversario della Confederazione…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, questo pomeriggio ha tenuto un intervento presso l’Auditorium Antonianum di Roma, all’evento celebrativo organizzato in occasione dell’80° anniversario della Confederazione Nazionale dell’Artigianato e della Piccola e Media Impresa. Lingua Italiano Immagine in Evidenza: Fonte: Il Presidente del Consiglio Tipologia Media: Video Il Presidente Meloni all'80° Anniversario della CNA Governo: Meloni L'intervento del Presidente Meloni","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni this afternoon gave a speech at the Auditorium Antonianum in Rome at the event organized to celebrate the 80th anniversary of the National Confederation of Crafts and Small and Medium Enterprises.","context_en":"Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni this afternoon gave a speech at the Auditorium Antonianum in Rome at the event organized to celebrate the 80th anniversary of the National Confederation of Crafts and Small and Medium Enterprises.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/media/il-presidente-meloni-all80-anniversario-della-cna/32713","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/media/il-presidente-meloni-all80-anniversario-della-cna/32712","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/il-presidente-meloni-all80-anniversario-della-cna/32709","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"22bdde3bcb9b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:47:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DELAWARE","what":"The Department of Justice Files Complaint Against the University of Delaware Challenging Policies that Provide In-State Tuition to Illegal Aliens","headline":"Justice Department sued the University of Delaware in Delaware for giving in-state tuition to illegal immigrants while denying it to US citizens","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, the Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the University of Delaware for violating federal law by prioritizing the needs of illegal aliens over U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Today, the Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the University of Delaware for violating federal law by prioritizing the needs of illegal aliens over U.S. citizens in defiance of Congress’s commands. The Department is challenging the University of Delaware’s policy which grants in-state tuition for illegal aliens while denying reduced tuition to U.S. citizens. This policy unconstitutionally discriminates against U.S. citizens who are not afforded the same reduced tuition rate, which is in direct conflict with federal law.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-justice-files-complaint-against-university-delaware-challenging-policies-provide","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4c9155c7c0de","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Florida county discovers mysterious Flock cameras with no obvious owner","headline":"St. Lucie County in Florida found 14 extra unpermitted Flock cameras when it went to remove its own 52","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"St.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"St. Lucie County put up 52 Flock cameras, but when they went to take them down, they found 14 additional unpermitted cameras.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/florida-county-discovers-mysterious-flock-cameras-with-no-obvious-owner/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"169706707b3c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:42:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"War Department Increases Two Hazard Pays for First Time in Nearly Quarter Century","headline":"The Pentagon raised hostile fire pay and imminent danger pay for troops for the first time since 2002","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The War Department announced an increase in hostile fire pay and imminent danger pay today for the first time since 2002.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The War Department announced an increase in hostile fire pay and imminent danger pay today for the first time since 2002.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4616621/war-department-increases-two-hazard-pays-for-first-time-in-nearly-quarter-centu/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/newsletters/defense-national-security/6124762-pentagon-increases-pay-for-troops-in-hostile-fire-for-first-time-in-over-20-years/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/security/pentagon-boosts-hostile-fire-and-imminent-danger-pay-troops-first-time-20-years?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3d1e2164e74b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:31:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAVANA","what":"Dictan condenas de hasta 20 años de prisión por robar 140 litros de aceite dieléctrico en La Habana","headline":"Sentences of up to 20 years in prison handed down for stealing 140 liters of dielectric oil in Havana","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Los cuatro procesados fueron acusados de \"sabotaje\", con los agravantes de hacerlo en grupo, con \"nocturnidad\" y por un \"beneficio económico\"","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Los cuatro procesados fueron acusados de \"sabotaje\", con los agravantes de hacerlo en grupo, con \"nocturnidad\" y por un \"beneficio económico\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The four defendants were charged with 'sabotage,' with the aggravating factors of acting as a group, at night, and for 'economic benefit.'","context_en":"The four defendants were charged with 'sabotage,' with the aggravating factors of acting as a group, at night, and for 'economic benefit.'","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/dictan-condenas-20-anos-prision_1_1131420.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ab8fa53af823","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:27:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PENNSYLVANIA","what":"Pennsylvania state lawmakers hold hearing on Jew-hatred in public schools","headline":"Pennsylvania state lawmakers held a hearing on Jew-hatred in public schools","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"Ultimately, through the continued pressure of legislative action, legal action and strategic communications, we think that we can turn the tide,\" the North American Values Institute told JNS.","quote":"Ultimately, through the continued pressure of legislative action, legal action and strategic communications, we think that we can turn the tide,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"Ultimately, through the continued pressure of legislative action, legal action and strategic communications, we think that we can turn the tide,\" the North American Values Institute told JNS.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/pennsylvania-state-lawmakers-hold-hearing-on-jew-hatred-in-public-schools","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c70c9ceddf41","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:26:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEL AVIV","what":"Secretary-General Strongly Condemns Acts Endangering Civil Aviation","headline":"UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres condemned acts that endangered civil aviation in Tel Aviv","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for UN Secretary-General António Guterres:","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The following statement was issued today by the Spokesman for UN Secretary-General António Guterres:","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/sgsm23312.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"db1198d6197a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:20:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Russische drones raken school Kyiv, kinderen komen met de schrik vrij","headline":"Russian drones hit school in Kyiv, children escape unharmed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In de Oekraïense hoofdstad Kyiv is een school getroffen door Russische drones.","quote":"Op het moment van de aanval bevonden zich meer dan 100 leerlingen en ongeveer 60 medewerkers van de school in een schuilkelder","quote_en":"At the time of the attack more than 100 pupils and about 60 staff of the school were in a shelter","context":"In de Oekraïense hoofdstad Kyiv is een school getroffen door Russische drones. Daarbij raakte niemand gewond. \"Op het moment van de aanval bevonden zich meer dan 100 leerlingen en ongeveer 60 medewerkers van de school in een schuilkelder\", schrijft de politie van Kyiv op Telegram . De constructie van de schuilplaats is stevig, dus geen van de kinderen of personeelsleden raakte gewond\", zei schooldirecteur Valentyna Chorna tegen persbureau Reuters. \"Ze gingen gewoon door met hun lessen.\" De gevel van het schoolgebouw raakte beschadigd en er ontstond een brand.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A school in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv was hit by Russian drones. No one was injured.","context_en":"A school in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv was hit by Russian drones. No one was injured.","lang":"nl","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633306","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russian-air-strikes-injure-two-ukraines-kyiv-odesa-officials-say-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055845/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169865-russian-drone-hits-school-in-kyiv-fire-breaks-out.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d1b67beed7ff","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:15:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Wisselende reacties op ingrijpen minister: 'Registratie maakt geen deskundige makelaar'","headline":"Mixed reactions to minister's intervention: 'Registration does not make an expert broker'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Makelaars en huizenkopers reageren wisselend op het ingrijpen van de minister in de makelaarssector.","quote":"Consumenten mogen niet langer de dupe worden van een ondoorzichtig koopproces. Duidelijke regels en een professionele makelaarssector zijn onmisbaar voor een gezonde woningmarkt","quote_en":"Consumers must no longer be the victims of an opaque buying process. Clear rules and a professional brokerage sector are indispensable for a healthy housing market.","context":"Makelaars en huizenkopers reageren wisselend op het ingrijpen van de minister in de makelaarssector. Hoewel het voor de een beter laat komt dan nooit, zijn anderen bang dat de aangekondigde maatregelen ten koste gaan van de kwaliteit van het makelaarsberoep. Minister Boekholt-O'Sullivan kondigde vandaag aan zelf toezicht te willen gaan houden op de hele makelaarsbranche. Via een beroepsregister en een klachtenloket hoopt ze huizenkopers meer transparantie en duidelijkheid te kunnen geven over het koopproces. Op deze manier wordt het beroep van de makelaar landelijk geregistreerd.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Real estate agents and home buyers have reacted in different ways to the minister's intervention in the brokerage sector. Although for some it is better late than never, others fear that the announced measures will come at the expense of the quality of the brokerage profession. Minister Boekholt-O'Sullivan announced today that she wants to take supervision of the entire brokerage branch herself.","context_en":"Real estate agents and home buyers have reacted in different ways to the minister's intervention in the brokerage sector. Although for some it is better late than never, others fear that the announced measures will come at the expense of the quality of the brokerage profession. Minister Boekholt-O'Sullivan announced today that she wants to take supervision of the entire brokerage branch herself.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633305","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"beffc78064b5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:11:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Trump admin sanctions Iranian automotive, rail and metals sectors","headline":"US Treasury sanctioned Iran rail, auto and metals firms on Thursday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The new designations strike “directly at the critical arteries Iran relies on to sustain its economy and evade sanctions,” the U.S.","quote":"directly at the critical arteries Iran relies on to sustain its economy and evade sanctions,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The new designations strike “directly at the critical arteries Iran relies on to sustain its economy and evade sanctions,” the U.S. Treasury Department stated.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1b","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/trump-admin-sanctions-iranian-automotive-rail-and-metals-sectors","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ed22dddddfde","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:06:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"Brits-Iraanse man opgepakt om incident rond Britse luchtmachtbasis","headline":"British-Iranian man arrested over incident at British air force base","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Britse politie heeft een man met de Britse en Iraanse nationaliteit gearresteerd op verdenking van het voorbereiden van terreurdaden bij de luchtmachtbasis bij Fairford.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"De Britse politie heeft een man met de Britse en Iraanse nationaliteit gearresteerd op verdenking van het voorbereiden van terreurdaden bij de luchtmachtbasis bij Fairford. De 27-jarige man werd in de wijk Westminster in Londen opgepakt, meldt de Britse antiterreurpolitie in een verklaring. Ook zijn volgens de Britse autoriteiten twee panden in hetzelfde gebied doorzocht. In het onderzoek is ook een 26-jarige Brit verhoord.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"British police have arrested a man with British and Iranian nationality on suspicion of preparing terrorist acts at the air force base near Fairford. The 27-year-old man was arrested in the Westminster district of London, the British counter-terrorism police said in a statement. According to the British authorities, two properties in the same area were also searched. A 26-year-old Briton was also","context_en":"British police have arrested a man with British and Iranian nationality on suspicion of preparing terrorist acts at the air force base near Fairford. The 27-year-old man was arrested in the Westminster district of London, the British counter-terrorism police said in a statement. According to the British authorities, two properties in the same area were also searched. A 26-year-old Briton was also","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/10/01/uk-iranian-national-arrested-raf-fairford-terror-plot-probe","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/fairford-air-base-dual-uk-iranian-national-arrested-security-incident/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/10/01/uk-arrests-iranian-dual-national-suspicion-involvement-air-base-plot/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/international/6124534-man-arrested-uk-raf-fairford/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633304","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20261001-uk-police-arrest-dual-uk-iranian-national-over-fairford-air-base-incident","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kayhan Life","url":"https://kayhanlife.com/news/iran/uk-police-arrest-dual-uk-iranian-man-in-fairford-air-base-investigation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/world-news/uk-iranian-dual-national-arrested-in-connection-to-suspected-terror-plot-at-raf-fairford/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5cc4ee521c28","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:05:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Export Development Canada is opening 3 new offices in Europe","headline":"Export Development Canada opened three new offices in Europe","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The move comes amid deepening ties between Canada and the European Union, including a proposal to make Canada the EU’s first 'associate member.'","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The move comes amid deepening ties between Canada and the European Union, including a proposal to make Canada the EU’s first 'associate member.'","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12083983/export-development-canada-new-offices-europe/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9e4bb8bc2487","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T17:05:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KALININGRAD","what":"Putin threatens again to use \"entire arsenal of weapons\" if anyone attacks Russia","headline":"Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened in Kaliningrad Russia to use the entire arsenal of weapons if anyone attacks Russia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russian ruler Vladimir Putin has threatened to use Russia's entire arsenal of weapons if anyone decides to attack Kaliningrad or any other Russian region.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russian ruler Vladimir Putin has threatened to use Russia's entire arsenal of weapons if anyone decides to attack Kaliningrad or any other Russian region.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8056028/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7209754b45b1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:56:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEPAL","what":"Vijftien lichamen gevonden in basiskamp Himalaya na lawine van zondag","headline":"Fifteen bodies found in Himalayan base camp after Sunday avalanche","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Hulpdiensten in Nepal hebben vijftien lichamen geborgen van bergbeklimmers die zondag werden bedolven onder een lawine.","quote":"Hulpdiensten in Nepal hebben vijftien lichamen geborgen van bergbeklimmers die zondag werden bedolven onder een lawine.","quote_en":"Rescue services in Nepal have recovered fifteen bodies of mountaineers who were buried by an avalanche on Sunday.","context":"Hulpdiensten in Nepal hebben vijftien lichamen geborgen van bergbeklimmers die zondag werden bedolven onder een lawine. Ze zijn gevonden in het basiskamp van de berg Himlung Himal, vlak bij de grens met Tibet. Er wordt nog één klimmer vermist. De groep was bezig met het inrichten van het basiskamp op de ruim 7000 meter hoge berg. Ze waren tenten aan het opzetten en touwen aan het vastmaken voor het klimseizoen, dat nu begint. De meesten waren berggidsen, maar er waren ook koks bij. Afgelopen zondag werden al snel de lichamen van twee berggidsen gevonden.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Rescue services in Nepal have recovered fifteen bodies of mountaineers who were buried by an avalanche on Sunday. They were found in the base camp of Himlung Himal mountain, near the border with Tibet. One climber is still missing.","context_en":"Rescue services in Nepal have recovered fifteen bodies of mountaineers who were buried by an avalanche on Sunday. They were found in the base camp of Himlung Himal mountain, near the border with Tibet. One climber is still missing.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/avalanche-kills-15-nepali-workers-preparing-himalayan-mountain-camp-for-climbers","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633301","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a4dc8cdfb4f5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:34:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MISSISSIPPI","what":"Police near Ole Miss respond to suspected overdose, say 'not student-related'","headline":"Police revived a 22-year-old after a suspected overdose in Oxford, Mississippi, but said it was unrelated to two recent Ole Miss student deaths","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 22-year-old was revived after a suspected overdose in Oxford, Miss., but police say it's unrelated to two recent Ole Miss student deaths.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 22-year-old was revived after a suspected overdose in Oxford, Miss., but police say it's unrelated to two recent Ole Miss student deaths.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/police-near-ole-miss-respond-suspected-overdose-say-not-student-related","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a15a1997cf1d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:34:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump says he would consider pardoning administration members: 'I'd do that'","headline":"President Donald Trump told Time magazine he would consider pardoning members of his administration","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Donald Trump told TIME magazine that he would consider pardoning members of his administration.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Donald Trump told TIME magazine that he would consider pardoning members of his administration.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Politics/trump-pardoning-administration-members/story?id=136915372","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c8287d54314d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:34:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"Attorney General and Solicitor General sworn in to their roles as Law Officers today","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Rt Hon Ellie Reeves KC MP has been sworn in as Attorney General and Andy Slaughter MP has been sworn in as Solicitor General.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Rt Hon Ellie Reeves KC MP has been sworn in as Attorney General and Andy Slaughter MP has been sworn in as Solicitor General.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/attorney-general-and-solicitor-general-sworn-in-to-their-roles-as-law-officers-today","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8fc0e3e14244","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:31:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALGERIA","what":"Algeria introduces death penalty for arsonists after deadly wildfires","headline":"Algeria brought in the death penalty for arsonists after more than 200 people died in summer wildfires in the north-east","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"It is estimated more than 200 people have died in blazes in the north-east of the country over the summer.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"It is estimated more than 200 people have died in blazes in the north-east of the country over the summer.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cmge4exg44v5o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633356","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f33597c0666c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:13:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Hezbollah received $157M in weapons in 2024, mostly from 1 nation, report says","headline":"Muslims gave Hezbollah 129 million dollars in weapons in Israel in 2024","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Israeli Center for Research of Terror Financing found Iran gave Hezbollah $129 million in rockets, missiles, drones and anti-tank missiles in 2024.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Israeli Center for Research of Terror Financing found Iran gave Hezbollah $129 million in rockets, missiles, drones and anti-tank missiles in 2024.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Iran has armed Hezbollah with rockets, missiles, drones and anti-tank missiles since the US and Israel began strikes on Iran in late February 2026. The fighting settled into weekly exchanges that month, with separate combat in Lebanon and naval clashes around the Strait of Hormuz. A June memorandum that lifted the dual blockades and opened a 60-day negotiating window collapsed on 8 July, after which US strikes resumed and the contest narrowed to control of the strait.\n\nThe Israeli Center for Research of Terror Financing reported on 1 October 2026 that Iran supplied Hezbollah $129 million worth of those weapons in 2024, part of a total $157 million the group received that year mostly from one nation.\n\nThe supply continued inside the larger US-Iran armed conflict that now turns on naval movements through the Strait of Hormuz and on the scale of weapons reaching Hezbollah in Lebanon.","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/world/hezbollah-received-157m-weapons-2024-mostly-1-nation-report-says","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3f09d5b6033e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:12:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Court agrees to hear arguments in important immigration case, religious zoning dispute","headline":"Supreme Court will hear arguments next year on United States immigrant detention policy in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Updated on Oct.","quote":"if the examining immigration officer determines that","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Updated on Oct. 1 at 12:48 p.m. The Supreme Court will hear oral arguments early next year in cases involving the enforcement of zoning ordinances against religious institutions, the Trump administration’s policy of detaining undocumented immigrants apprehended within the United States without a hearing, and the effect of a federal law intended to protect the former spouses of U.S. servicemembers. The announcement that the court had added three new cases to its oral argument docket came on a list of orders released from the justices’ Sept.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SCOTUSblog","url":"https://www.scotusblog.com/2026/10/court-agrees-to-hear-arguments-in-important-immigration-case-religious-zoning-dispute/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/supreme-court-trump-mandatory-detention-policy-rhoney-v-barbosa-da-cunha/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/supreme-court/supreme-court-decide-lawfulness-trumps-immigrant-detention-policy-rcna600251","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ce05b3775a64","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:09:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"IRS extends tax filing deadlines for Israelis, others affected by war","headline":"The IRS extended tax filing deadlines for Israelis and others affected by the war in Israel until Sept. 30, 2027","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Eligible returns and payments can be postponed until Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Eligible returns and payments can be postponed until Sept. 30, 2027, the agency said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/irs-extends-tax-filing-deadlines-for-israelis-others-affected-by-war","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e63af62d118","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T16:06:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MONTGOMERY","what":"Justice Department Files Complaint Against the State of Maryland, Prince George’s County, MD and Montgomery County, MD Challenging Mask Ban and Identification Requirements for Federal Officers","headline":"Justice Department sued Maryland and two counties over mask and id rules for federal officers","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, the Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the State of Maryland, Maryland Attorney General Anthony G.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Today, the Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the State of Maryland, Maryland Attorney General Anthony G. Brown, the Maryland Police Training and Standards Commission, Prince George’s County, and Montgomery County, challenging their unconstitutional attempt to regulate federal law enforcement officers by prohibiting federal officers from wearing masks and requiring they provide identification in the manner prescribed by Md. Code Ann., Pub. Safety §§ 3-207, 3-535, 3-536, Prince George’s Co., Md Code § 18-124, and Montgomery Co., Md. Code § 35-13E.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1c","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-files-complaint-against-state-maryland-prince-georges-county-md-and","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"898744c35fc2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:55:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Police disrupt KillSec ransomware, arrest suspected teenage leader","headline":"European police disrupted the KillSec ransomware operation and arrested a suspected teenage leader","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European police said raids against the KillSec ransomware-as-a-service operation included the arrest of a high-profile teen suspect.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European police said raids against the KillSec ransomware-as-a-service operation included the arrest of a high-profile teen suspect.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/killsec-ransomware-raas-arrests-europe","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a7a8c48ab1a1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:54:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MIAMI BEACH","what":"Rick Ross charged with battery after alleged attack on girlfriend","headline":"Rapper Rick Ross beat his girlfriend at a Miami Beach home in August","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 50-year-old rapper is accused of beating his girlfriend at a Miami Beach home in August.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 50-year-old rapper is accused of beating his girlfriend at a Miami Beach home in August. He has denied all allegations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/rick-ross-charged-battery-alleged-attack-girlfriend-rcna600925","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/rick-ross-arrested-miami-beach-battery-strangulation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2026/10/01/rapper-rick-ross-arrested-miami-beach-domestic-violence-charges/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"8731c23d2252","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:52:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Reflecting pool vandalism charges against David Hearn permanently dismissed","headline":"A judge permanently dismissed vandalism charges against former Olympian David Hearn in the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool case in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In August, prosecutors asked a judge to dismiss Reflecting Pool vandalism charges against David Hearn because the damage had been caused by a contractor's \"botched installation.\"","quote":"botched installation.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In August, prosecutors asked a judge to dismiss Reflecting Pool vandalism charges against David Hearn because the damage had been caused by a contractor's \"botched installation.\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/reflecting-pool-vandalism-charges-david-hearn-dismissed/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/judge-permanently-dismisses-lincoln-memorial-reflecting-pool-vandalism-case-against-former-olympian","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"28aa210956b9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:48:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pentagon is latest federal agency hit by hackers","headline":"Hackers stole personnel records of millions of US service members in a months-long breach of a Pentagon server","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Hackers have stolen the personnel records of millions of military service members following a months-long breach of a Pentagon server.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Hackers have stolen the personnel records of millions of military service members following a months-long breach of a Pentagon server.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/pentagon-is-latest-federal-agency-hit-by-hackers/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"31ebe997f3d9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:27:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"Pentagon launches religious affairs office, says ‘sacred duty’ to give troops ‘first-class religious support’","headline":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth launched a Pentagon Office of Religious Affairs at Quantico on Wednesday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Decisions about faith and religion were made by secular careerists in cubicles and lawyers running around with red tape,” the U.S.","quote":"Decisions about faith and religion were made by secular careerists in cubicles and lawyers running around with red tape,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“Decisions about faith and religion were made by secular careerists in cubicles and lawyers running around with red tape,” the U.S. defense secretary said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"religion","sim":0.4037},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1d","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/pentagon-launches-religious-affairs-office-says-sacred-duty-to-give-troops-first-class-religious-support","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"03f812a09156","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:21:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BIRMINGHAM","what":"750 young people connect with top employers at Birmingham’s first Youth Guarantee Jobs Fair","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Over 750 young people attended Birmingham's first Youth Guarantee Jobs Fair, bringing them together with the UK's biggest businesses.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Over 750 young people attended Birmingham's first Youth Guarantee Jobs Fair, bringing them together with the UK's biggest businesses.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/750-young-people-connect-with-top-employers-at-birminghams-first-youth-guarantee-jobs-fair","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"233d02c1dfba","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:20:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pro-school choice Jewish groups laud Trump admin for rules confirming larger education credits","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The federal government’s announcement “literally doubles the potential for this program to transform the math of funding Jewish education in America,” Nathan Diament of the Orthodox Union told JNS.","quote":"literally doubles the potential for this program to transform the math of funding Jewish education in America,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The federal government’s announcement “literally doubles the potential for this program to transform the math of funding Jewish education in America,” Nathan Diament of the Orthodox Union told JNS.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"schools","sim":0.4348},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1e","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/nation/states/center-square/feds-release-guidance-education-freedom-tax-credit?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/pro-school-choice-jewish-groups-laud-trump-admin-for-rules-confirming-larger-education-credits","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d5dd919e5b30","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:14:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Toughest restrictions ever imposed on offenders on licence","headline":"New rules in the United Kingdom put the toughest supervision yet on offenders released from prison from today","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Offenders leaving prison from today will be monitored under the toughest supervision in British history, as new powers to restrict their movements come into force.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Offenders leaving prison from today will be monitored under the toughest supervision in British history, as new powers to restrict their movements come into force.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/toughest-restrictions-ever-imposed-on-offenders-on-licence","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"83dadc3a1af6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:10:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON, DC","what":"National Average Dips Following Record-Setting September","headline":"National average gas price fell 7 cents to 4.41 dollars a gallon in early October 2026","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"WASHINGTON, DC (October 1, 2026) – The national average for a gallon of regular gasoline dropped nearly 7 cents from last week to $4.41.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"WASHINGTON, DC (October 1, 2026) – The national average for a gallon of regular gasoline dropped nearly 7 cents from last week to $4.41. This follows a record-setting September at the pump. The monthly average was $4.33, 50 cents higher than the previous September record of $3.83 set in 2023. Crude oil prices have dipped","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$1f","sources":[{"outlet":"AAA","url":"https://gasprices.aaa.com/national-average-dips-following-record-setting-september/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"AAA","url":"https://gasprices.aaa.com/national-average-climbs-nearly-5-cents-since-last-week/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2d7af5e3ce3d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:05:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"MHRA joins global regulators in call to advance alternatives to animal testing","headline":"MHRA joined global regulators in a call to advance alternatives to animal testing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"International statement co-developed by UK medicines regulator","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"International statement co-developed by UK medicines regulator","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/mhra-joins-global-regulators-in-call-to-advance-alternatives-to-animal-testing","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e56f0a45bf1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:05:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ADDIS ABABA","what":"Explosions heard in Ethiopia's capital after drone flights banned","headline":"Explosions rang out in Addis Ababa a week after Ethiopia banned drone flights","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"It comes a week after fighting erupted north of the capital between the army and a new alliance of armed groups.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"It comes a week after fighting erupted north of the capital between the army and a new alliance of armed groups.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c3vgygpqky9zo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"946dbc9e9015","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:04:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Trump recounts ‘incredible story’ of Israeli plumber who helped save flydubai flight","headline":"Trump told of Israeli plumber who pulled stabbing pilot from cockpit of flydubai plane","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The U.S. president said he spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who told him the passenger intervened after a pilot allegedly stabbed his colleague and the plane went into a nose dive.","summary":"President Donald Trump said he spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Netanyahu told him about a passenger on a flydubai flight to Tel Aviv. The passenger was an Israeli plumber named Yaniv Hayun. He rushed into the cockpit after the co-pilot stabbed the captain. Hayun pulled the attacker from his seat and helped level the plane from a nose dive. The plane made an emergency landing in Saudi Arabia. Trump said he heard the story from Netanyahu but did not know if it was true.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.544},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/trump-recounts-incredible-story-of-israeli-plumber-who-helped-save-flydubai-flight","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b19cdb1637cb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T15:01:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NICARAGUA","what":"CIDH otorga medidas cautelares a favor de la abogada Thelma Montenegro","headline":"IACHR grants precautionary measures in favor of lawyer Thelma Montenegro","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Comisión Interamericana de Derechos Humanos (CIDH) otorgó medidas cautelares a favor de la abogada nicaragüense opositora Thelma del Rosario Montenegro Centeno, tras considerar que se encuentra en una situación de…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Comisión Interamericana de Derechos Humanos (CIDH) otorgó medidas cautelares a favor de la abogada nicaragüense opositora Thelma del Rosario Montenegro Centeno, tras considerar que se encuentra en una situación de gravedad en su país, donde está presa desde el pasado 19 de agosto de 2026. Montenegro Centeno, de 54 años, fue detenida tras acudir […] La entrada CIDH otorga medidas cautelares a favor de la abogada Thelma Montenegro se publicó primero en Confidencial .","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) granted precautionary measures in favor of the Nicaraguan opposition lawyer Thelma del Rosario Montenegro Centeno after determining she is in a situation of gravity in her country, where she has been imprisoned since August 19, 2026.","context_en":"The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) granted precautionary measures in favor of the Nicaraguan opposition lawyer Thelma del Rosario Montenegro Centeno after determining she is in a situation of gravity in her country, where she has been imprisoned since August 19, 2026.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Confidencial","url":"https://confidencial.digital/noticias/cidh-otorga-medidas-cautelares-a-favor-de-abogada-thelma-montenegro/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d07a4af19820","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:56:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CAMEROON","what":"Cameroon govt announces payments as teachers strike continues","headline":"Cameroon government announced payments as higher education teachers continued their strike over 16 billion CFA francs in bonuses","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In Cameroon, the start of the academic year for Universities, scheduled for October 5, may not take place.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In Cameroon, the start of the academic year for Universities, scheduled for October 5, may not take place. This is as a result of an indefinite strike launched by SYNES, the National Union of Higher Education Teachers. Teachers are demanding the payment of 16 billion CFA francs in academic bonuses, equivalent to nearly 24 million euros.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20261001-cameroon-govt-announces-payments-as-teachers-strike-continues","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fd4dec8e5eb2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:53:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PONTEVEDRA","what":"Pedro Sánchez destaca el compromiso del Gobierno con la industria aeroespacial y de la automoción en su visita al centro industrial Delta Vigo PTL Valladares","headline":"Pedro Sánchez highlights government's commitment to aerospace and automotive industry during visit to Delta Vigo PTL","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Vigo (Pontevedra), jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 El presidente ha recorrido las instalaciones de esta empresa del Grupo Delta, referencia de la industria aeron&aacute;utica gallega, que ha contado con el respaldo de los…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Vigo (Pontevedra), jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 El presidente ha recorrido las instalaciones de esta empresa del Grupo Delta, referencia de la industria aeron&aacute;utica gallega, que ha contado con el respaldo de los fondos europeos y ejemplifica la apuesta por la innovaci&oacute;n y el empleo de calidad.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Vigo (Pontevedra), Thursday 1 October 2026. The president toured the facilities of this company of the Delta Group, a reference in the Galician aeronautical industry, which has received support from European funds and exemplifies the commitment to innovation and quality employment.","context_en":"Vigo (Pontevedra), Thursday 1 October 2026. The president toured the facilities of this company of the Delta Group, a reference in the Galician aeronautical industry, which has received support from European funds and exemplifies the commitment to innovation and quality employment.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Moncloa","url":"https://www.lamoncloa.gob.es/presidente/actividades/Paginas/2026/011026-sanchez-delta-vigo.aspx?qfr=1","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"71d58a2d3f9f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:46:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"Nigeria: Govt Skips Independence Day Parade for Second Year Running","headline":"President Bola Ahmed Tinubu skipped Nigeria's Independence Day military parade for the second year in a row","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[Daily Trust] For the second consecutive year, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu's administration has dropped the traditional Independence Day military parade.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[Daily Trust] For the second consecutive year, President Bola Ahmed Tinubu's administration has dropped the traditional Independence Day military parade.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010437.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9a42135fe93d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:44:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IRAN","what":"Iran indkalder britisk ambassadør til samtale efter hændelse ved militærbase","headline":"Iran summons British ambassador for talks after incident at military base","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Iran indkalder britisk ambassadør til samtale efter hændelse ved militærbase","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Iran summoned the British ambassador for a conversation after an incident at a military base.","context_en":"Iran summoned the British ambassador for a conversation after an incident at a military base.","lang":"da","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/iran-indkalder-britisk-ambassadoer-til-samtale-efter-haendelse-ved-militaerbase","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4bef712d2214","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:44:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GABORONE","what":"Botswana: Chapo Reaffirms the Need for Stronger Cooperation With Botswana","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[AIM] Maputo -- Mozambican President Daniel Chapo has described his state visit to Botswana as positive, highlighting stronger bilateral cooperation, new investment prospects and plans to establish air links between t…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[AIM] Maputo -- Mozambican President Daniel Chapo has described his state visit to Botswana as positive, highlighting stronger bilateral cooperation, new investment prospects and plans to establish air links between the two countries.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010431.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5b2963ba54f8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:43:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Judge bars U.S. Attorney Jeanine Pirro from charging ex-Olympian in Reflecting Pool case","headline":"Judge barred US Attorney Jeanine Pirro from charging a former Olympian in the Reflecting Pool case in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The judge dismissed the case with prejudice, citing “exceptional circumstances” that included Trump’s pressure campaign on Pirro’s office.","quote":"exceptional circumstances","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The judge dismissed the case with prejudice, citing “exceptional circumstances” that included Trump’s pressure campaign on Pirro’s office.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/judge-bars-jeanine-pirro-reflecting-pool-case-trump-rcna597047","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"567991e64837","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:43:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MINNEAPOLIS","what":"Renee Good's family sues Trump admin over fatal ICE shooting","headline":"Renee Good's family sued the US and ICE agents over her fatal shooting during a January immigration operation in Minneapolis","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The family of Renee Good, one of two US citizens fatally shot by federal immigration agents in Minneapolis in January, has sued President Donald Trump's administration alleging negligence and civil rights violations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The family of Renee Good, one of two US citizens fatally shot by federal immigration agents in Minneapolis in January, has sued President Donald Trump's administration alleging negligence and civil rights violations.","summary":"Renee Good died on January 7 in Minneapolis. An ICE agent shot her as she sat in her car during protests against federal agents sent to arrest undocumented migrants. Her family filed two civil suits on Thursday. One suit names the United States. The other names the ICE officer who shot her, Stephen Miller, and Kristi Noem. The suits say officials planned to use force on people who watched the agents and to target people who looked Somali or Hispanic.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/renee-good-family-civil-lawsuit-against-federal-government-ice-killing-minneapolis/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/renee-goods-family-files-a-wrongful-death-lawsuit-against-the-trump-administration/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/renee-good-s-family-sues-trump-admin-over-fatal-ice-shooting/a-79504836?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/renee-goods-family-sues-us-government-rcna600897","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"KSTP","url":"https://kstp.com/kstp-news/top-news/renee-goods-family-sues-us-ice-agents-over-fatal-minneapolis-shooting/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c99e4f42e7e9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:38:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"Georgia man arrested for alleged threat to kill Hegseth, family if Pentagon chief didn't kill Chabad Jews","headline":"Georgia man arrested for threat to kill Hegseth and family unless he killed Chabad Jews","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"If you personally strap a GoPro to your head and clear out a Chabad synagogue with the service rifle, you'll be spared punishment Pete Hegseth,\" the defendant allegedly wrote.","quote":"If you personally strap a GoPro to your head and clear out a Chabad synagogue with the service rifle, you'll be spared punishment Pete Hegseth,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"If you personally strap a GoPro to your head and clear out a Chabad synagogue with the service rifle, you'll be spared punishment Pete Hegseth,\" the defendant allegedly wrote.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/georgia-man-arrested-for-alleged-threat-to-kill-hegseth-family-if-pentagon-chief-didnt-kill-chabad-jews","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dc2523040d98","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:37:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MONTENEGRO","what":"Intervention from His Majesty's Ambassador to Montenegro, Nerys Jones, at the 2026 Berlin Process Foreign Ministers' Meeting","headline":"His Majesty's Ambassador to Montenegro, Nerys Jones, spoke at the Berlin Process Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Pržno on 1 October 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"His Majesty's Ambassador to Montenegro, Nerys Jones, gave the following speech at the Berlin Process Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Pržno on 1 October 2026","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"His Majesty's Ambassador to Montenegro, Nerys Jones, gave the following speech at the Berlin Process Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Pržno on 1 October 2026","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/intervention-from-his-majestys-ambassador-to-montenegro-nerys-jones-at-the-2026-berlin-process-foreign-ministers-meeting","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8a832bdc8b41","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:25:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Trump plan to ban diesel exports is being discussed","headline":"Trump plan to ban diesel exports is being discussed","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"R370","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"High fuel costs in America and Britain are being discussed. People say diesel prices have topped six fifty a gallon in America. Some say the price is nearing two pounds a litre in Britain.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"High fuel costs in America and Britain are being discussed. People say diesel prices have topped six fifty a gallon in America. Some say the price is nearing two pounds a litre in Britain.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"R² Reports","url":"https://www.youtube.com/shorts/DE97OgAgG2w","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fc196eae6c74","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:25:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KAUNAS","what":"Kaunas Žalgiris turns to police over swastika on fans’ banner","headline":"Kaunas Zalgiris basketball club reported a swastika on a fans banner to police after a EuroLeague match in Lithuania on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kaunas Žalgiris basketball club said Thursday it turned to the police over a swastika symbol displayed in the corner of one of the fans’ banners during Tuesday's EuroLeague match.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kaunas Žalgiris basketball club said Thursday it turned to the police over a swastika symbol displayed in the corner of one of the fans’ banners during Tuesday's EuroLeague match.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069255/kaunas-zalgiris-turns-to-police-over-swastika-on-fans-banner","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bc72a16d575b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:14:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"21-årig mand får betinget fængsel for ulykke, der kostede 17-årig ven livet","headline":"21-year-old man receives suspended sentence for accident that killed 17-year-old friend","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"21-årig mand får betinget fængsel for ulykke, der kostede 17-årig ven livet","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A 21-year-old man receives a suspended prison sentence for an accident that cost the life of his 17-year-old friend.","context_en":"A 21-year-old man receives a suspended prison sentence for an accident that cost the life of his 17-year-old friend.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/21-aarig-mand-faar-betinget-faengsel-ulykke-der-kostede-17-aarig-ven-livet","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5606b9a1e6c4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:11:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KANSAS","what":"Loyal dog fetches police to help owner who fell at Kansas home","headline":"A loyal dog led Leawood police to its owner who had lain on the floor for hours at a Kansas home","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bodycam footage shows a Leawood police officer following the leashed dog down the street to a garage where its owner had been on the floor for hours.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bodycam footage shows a Leawood police officer following the leashed dog down the street to a garage where its owner had been on the floor for hours.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/loyal-dog-fetches-police-help-owner-who-fell-kansas-home","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ca6ee44938a0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:05:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Prime Minister Carney lists the West Coast Oil Pipeline, now known as Pacific Link, as a project of national interest to unlock Canada’s full potential as a global energy superpower","headline":"Prime Minister Mark Carney listed the Pacific Link oil pipeline to Canada’s West Coast as a project of national interest to reduce dependence on the United States","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, the world faces an energy crisis across three dimensions: our cost of living, our climate, and our sovereignty increasingly depend on our nation’s ability to supply and control its own energy.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$20","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/news-releases/2026/10/01/prime-minister-carney-lists-west-coast-oil-pipeline-now-known-pacific","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12083562/west-coast-pipeline-next-step/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"55cabeede252","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:05:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Russian dissident Garry Kasparov says US warned him of danger to his life","headline":"US officials warned Russian dissident Garry Kasparov that his life was in danger, he said in Lithuania","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"My family and I will not truly be safe as long as Putin is in power,\" says the former chess world champion.","quote":"My family and I will not truly be safe as long as Putin is in power,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"My family and I will not truly be safe as long as Putin is in power,\" says the former chess world champion.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6y8z8kr5mk8o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069244/kasparov-says-us-lithuanian-intelligence-warned-life-in-danger","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"47c306ea1673","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:00:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"The Government of Canada introduces new Productivity Mega Deduction to help businesses invest, grow and create jobs in Canada","headline":"Wayne Long visited Saint John in Canada to highlight the new Productivity Mega Deduction that will help businesses invest, grow and create jobs","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, the Honourable Wayne Long, Secretary of State (Canada Revenue Agency and Financial Institutions), participated in an event highlighting how the federal government is helping Canadian businesses of all sizes inv…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Today, the Honourable Wayne Long, Secretary of State (Canada Revenue Agency and Financial Institutions), participated in an event highlighting how the federal government is helping Canadian businesses of all sizes invest in new equipment, adopt new technology, expand their operations, and compete at home and around the world.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Department of Finance Canada","url":"https://www.canada.ca/en/department-finance/news/2026/10/the-government-of-canada-introduces-new-productivity-mega-deduction-to-help-businesses-invest-grow-and-create-jobs-in-canada.html","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Department of Finance Canada","url":"https://www.canada.ca/en/department-finance/news/2026/09/secretary-of-state-long-in-saint-john-to-highlight-new-productivity-mega-deduction-that-will-help-businesses-invest-grow-and-create-jobs-in-canada.html","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"37caebb29053","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T14:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KAUNAS","what":"Lithuania starts construction of Leopard tank assembly, repair plant","headline":"Lithuania began building a Leopard 2A8 tank assembly and repair plant in the Kaunas Free Economic Zone on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Construction of a Leopard 2A8 tank assembly and repair plant officially began in the Kaunas Free Economic Zone on Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Construction of a Leopard 2A8 tank assembly and repair plant officially began in the Kaunas Free Economic Zone on Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069356/lithuania-starts-construction-of-leopard-tank-assembly-repair-plant","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"11e30a5ae893","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:57:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DUBAI","what":"Flydubai passenger describes hugging his children as plane nosedived during attack","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Adam Polovincik tells the BBC he told his young children \"everything is going to be all right\" as flight plunged more than 17,000ft (5,200m).","quote":"everything is going to be all right","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Adam Polovincik tells the BBC he told his young children \"everything is going to be all right\" as flight plunged more than 17,000ft (5,200m).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6d949ydnw3po?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"322e560e9b48","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:49:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMAKUSA","what":"Japan city, MUFG Bank to launch satellite-based study of local dolphins","headline":"Japan city of Amakusa in Japan and MUFG Bank will launch satellite-based study of local dolphins","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Japanese mega bank said Thursday it will work with the southwestern city of Amakusa to launch a study of the local population of Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Japanese mega bank said Thursday it will work with the southwestern city of Amakusa to launch a study of the local population of Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86946","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"fbeb5abe5dee","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:47:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MANIEMA","what":"Maniema : plus de 500 maisons détruites après une pluie diluvienne à Salamabila","headline":"Maniema: more than 500 houses destroyed after torrential rain in Salamabila","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Une forte pluie accompagnée de vents violents a causé d’importants dégâts matériels mercredi 30 septembre 2026 après-midi à Salamabila, dans le territoire de Kabambare (Maniema).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Une forte pluie accompagnée de vents violents a causé d’importants dégâts matériels mercredi 30 septembre 2026 après-midi à Salamabila, dans le territoire de Kabambare (Maniema). Plus de cinq cents habitations ont été détruites ou endommagées, laissant de nombreuses familles sans abri.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A heavy rain accompanied by violent winds caused significant material damage on Wednesday afternoon, September 30, 2026, in Salamabila, in the territory of Kabambare (Maniema). More than five hundred homes were destroyed or damaged, leaving many families homeless.","context_en":"A heavy rain accompanied by violent winds caused significant material damage on Wednesday afternoon, September 30, 2026, in Salamabila, in the territory of Kabambare (Maniema). More than five hundred homes were destroyed or damaged, leaving many families homeless.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/environnement/maniema-plus-de-500-maisons-detruites-apres-une-pluie-diluvienne","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4d5f5083eca8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:46:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DR CONGO","what":"Red Barnet: I gennemsnit er syv børn døde af ebola hver dag i DR Congo siden maj","headline":"Save the Children: On average seven children have died of Ebola every day in DR Congo since May","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Red Barnet: I gennemsnit er syv børn døde af ebola hver dag i DR Congo siden maj","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Save the Children says that on average seven children have died of Ebola every day in DR Congo since May.","context_en":"Save the Children says that on average seven children have died of Ebola every day in DR Congo since May.","lang":"da","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/red-barnet-i-gennemsnit-er-syv-boern-doede-af-ebola-hver-dag-i-dr-congo-siden-maj","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"155155b6ce20","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:37:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OSHAKATI","what":"Namibia: We Are Not Going Anywhere - Oshakati Residents","headline":"Oshakati residents in Namibia refused to leave occupied land at Onawa Extension 7 after the town council set a removal deadline","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[Namibian] Residents occupying land at Onawa Extension 7 at Oshakati have refused to vacate the area despite a removal deadline issued by the Oshakati Town Council.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[Namibian] Residents occupying land at Onawa Extension 7 at Oshakati have refused to vacate the area despite a removal deadline issued by the Oshakati Town Council.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010369.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6a80a4edd0c4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:36:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAIROBI","what":"Kenya: Nairobi Tests Flood Response As Agencies Set Up Emergency Command Centre","headline":"Kenya tested its flood response in Nairobi as agencies set up a joint command centre at Charter Hall","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[Capital FM] Nairobi -- Nairobi has begun testing its emergency response system ahead of the October-December rains, with national and county agencies setting up a joint command centre at Charter Hall.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[Capital FM] Nairobi -- Nairobi has begun testing its emergency response system ahead of the October-December rains, with national and county agencies setting up a joint command centre at Charter Hall.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010361.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d9adb3798808","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:36:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Asian Games: Japan surpasses Hangzhou gold tally with cycling, judo wins","headline":"Japan won its 60th gold medal at the Aichi Asian Games in Japan with cycling, judo and other wins on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan won gold medals in cycling track, judo and other sports at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Thursday, pushing its tally to 60 Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan won gold medals in cycling track, judo and other sports at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Thursday, pushing its tally to 60 Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/sports/2026/10/02/asian-games/japan-judo-gold-asian-games/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86916","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"f8f44707143f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:33:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ETHIOPIA","what":"Ethiopia: 'We Are Completely Isolated - Humanitarian Access Is Urgently Needed'","headline":"Ethiopia's Eparch of Adigrat said his area is completely isolated with blocked communications and needs urgent humanitarian access","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[Agenzia Fides] Adigrat -- \"It is extremely urgent to facilitate humanitarian access, dialogue for peace and every form of dialogue.","quote":"It is extremely urgent to facilitate humanitarian access, dialogue for peace and every form of dialogue. We are completely isolated, communications are blocked, and we have no contact with anyone.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[Agenzia Fides] Adigrat -- \"It is extremely urgent to facilitate humanitarian access, dialogue for peace and every form of dialogue. We are completely isolated, communications are blocked, and we have no contact with anyone.\" This is the message sent to Fides by the Eparch of Adigrat, Tesfaselassie Medhin, in a brief message sent with the support of UNICEF, which continues to assist the Church and, where possible, to maintain a minimum connection with the outside world.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000073","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010354.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"46e35aaace05","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:28:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SUD-UBANGI","what":"Sud-Ubangi : deux cas d’Ebola confirmés sur fond de grève des médecins","headline":"Sud-Ubangi: two confirmed Ebola cases amid doctors' strike","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Deux cas de maladie à virus Ebola ont été confirmés dans la province du Sud-Ubangi.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Deux cas de maladie à virus Ebola ont été confirmés dans la province du Sud-Ubangi. L’annonce a été faite par la Division provinciale de la Santé (DPS) lors de la huitième réunion consacrée à l’évolution de la situation épidémiologique dans la province.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Two cases of Ebola virus disease have been confirmed in Sud-Ubangi province. The announcement was made by the Provincial Health Division (DPS) during the eighth meeting dedicated to the evolution of the epidemiological situation in the province.","context_en":"Two cases of Ebola virus disease have been confirmed in Sud-Ubangi province. The announcement was made by the Provincial Health Division (DPS) during the eighth meeting dedicated to the evolution of the epidemiological situation in the province.","lang":"fr","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/sante/sud-ubangi-deux-cas-debola-confirmes-sur-fond-de-greve-des-medecins","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/10/01/doctors-without-borders-employee-working-ebola-response-tests-positive-virus/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"bd5a709a5368","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:26:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Football: Japan edge past Ecuador on penalties, to face New Zealand","headline":"Japan beat Ecuador 5-4 on penalties after a goalless draw to reach the final against New Zealand in the Kirin Cup semifinal in Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Zion Suzuki made a decisive save as Japan beat Ecuador 5-4 in a penalty shootout after a goalless draw in the semifinals of the Ki Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Zion Suzuki made a decisive save as Japan beat Ecuador 5-4 in a penalty shootout after a goalless draw in the semifinals of the Ki Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86944","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"43312829153d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:21:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COUNTY DURHAM","what":"Man arrested in connection with North East illegal waste dumping","headline":"Police arrested a 32-year-old man in County Durham, United Kingdom in connection with illegal waste sites in Peterlee and Hartlepool","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"32-year-old is being questioned in connection with illegal waste sites in Peterlee and Hartlepool, County Durham.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"32-year-old is being questioned in connection with illegal waste sites in Peterlee and Hartlepool, County Durham.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/man-arrested-in-connection-with-north-east-illegal-waste-dumping--2","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"966245c59dec","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:13:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZIMBABWE","what":"Zimbabwe tycoon Wicknell Chivayo and wife killed in helicopter crash","headline":"Zimbabwe tycoon Wicknell Chivayo and his wife died in a helicopter crash in Harare","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Chivayo was known for his lavish lifestyle, close ties to African presidents and lucrative government contracts.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Chivayo was known for his lavish lifestyle, close ties to African presidents and lucrative government contracts.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cr4gvg0yenl4o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/zimbabwe-tycoon-wicknell-chivayo-dies-in-helicopter-crash/a-79501691?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610020020.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e77d9a86c03e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:12:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwan's manufacturing activity expands at fastest pace in five years","headline":"Taiwan manufacturing activity expanded at its fastest pace in five years in September, the Chung-Hua Institution for Economic Research said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Amid continued strong demand for AI applications, Taiwan's manufacturing activity improved in September and expanded at the fastest pace in five years, the Chung-Hua Institution for Economic Research (CIER) said Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010023","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"855beb0ae85d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"El presidente del Gobierno se reúne con el director ejecutivo de Roche y presidente de los CEO de biofarmacéuticas para abordar los retos del sector","headline":"Spanish prime minister meets with Roche CEO and head of biopharma CEOs to address sector challenges","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Moncloa, Madrid, jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 Pedro S&aacute;nchez ha subrayado que, adem&aacute;s de mantener su liderazgo en ensayos cl&iacute;nicos, Espa&ntilde;a trabaja para fortalecer su posici&oacute;n como n…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Moncloa, Madrid, jueves 1 de octubre de 2026 Pedro S&aacute;nchez ha subrayado que, adem&aacute;s de mantener su liderazgo en ensayos cl&iacute;nicos, Espa&ntilde;a trabaja para fortalecer su posici&oacute;n como nodo de innovaci&oacute;n farmac&eacute;utica.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"At La Moncloa in Madrid on Thursday 1 October 2026, Pedro Sánchez highlighted that, in addition to maintaining its leadership in clinical trials, Spain is working to strengthen its position as a hub for pharmaceutical innovation.","context_en":"At La Moncloa in Madrid on Thursday 1 October 2026, Pedro Sánchez highlighted that, in addition to maintaining its leadership in clinical trials, Spain is working to strengthen its position as a hub for pharmaceutical innovation.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Moncloa","url":"https://www.lamoncloa.gob.es/presidente/actividades/Paginas/2026/011026-sanchez-reunion-roche.aspx?qfr=1","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6998622ba4e3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:03:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Kvinde får bøde på 200.000 kroner for hvalpefabrik","headline":"Woman fined 200,000 kroner for puppy farm","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kvinde får bøde på 200.000 kroner for hvalpefabrik","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A woman has been fined 200,000 kroner for running a puppy farm.","context_en":"A woman has been fined 200,000 kroner for running a puppy farm.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/kvinde-faar-boede-paa-200-000-kroner-hvalpefabrik","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bc897f0b13a2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:03:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"MAC links impersonation, threats to possible Chinese transnational repression","headline":"Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council linked impersonation threats to a film distributor in 2024 to Chinese transnational repression in Taipei on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Taiwan's Mainland Affairs Council (MAC) said Thursday that threats made by one or more persons impersonating a Taiwanese documentary distributor who brought a film about alleged forced organ harvesting in China to the country in 2024 appear to be a \"new method\" of Chinese transnational repression.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610010021","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"548d56e4c9ed","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:02:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EGYPT","what":"President Ramaphosa to lead SADC Participation at the AU Mid-Year Coordination Meeting","headline":"President Cyril Ramaphosa gave closing remarks at the AU Committee on South Sudan summit in South Africa on September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Ramaphosa to lead SADC Participation at the AU Mid-Year Coordination Meeting President Cyril Ramaphosa, in his capacity as Chairperson of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), will participate i…","quote":"The Mid-Year Coordination Meeting provides an opportunity for President Ramaphosa to interact with his counterparts bilaterally on African issues of mutual concern,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Ramaphosa to lead SADC Participation at the AU Mid-Year Coordination Meeting President Cyril Ramaphosa, in his capacity as Chairperson of the Southern African Development Community (SADC), will participate in the 8th African Union (AU) Mid-Year Coordination Meeting (MYCM) in El-Alamein, Arab Republic of Egypt, on Sunday, 4 October 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Presidency (South Africa)","url":"https://thepresidency.gov.za/president-ramaphosa-lead-sadc-participation-african-union-mid-year-coordination-meeting","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/president-ramaphosa-lead-sadc-participation-au-mid-year-coordination-meeting","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Presidency (South Africa)","url":"https://thepresidency.gov.za/closing-remarks-president-cyril-ramaphosa-summit-au-committee-south-sudan-c5-plus","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"93258786a204","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:00:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAVANA","what":"Anna Bensi y su madre, condenadas a dos años de \"limitación de libertad\"","headline":"Anna Bensi and her mother sentenced to two years of 'restriction of freedom'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"No estamos de acuerdo con el sistema político de nuestro país, y eso no es delito\", había clamado la 'influencer' ante la prensa extranjera antes de entrar al tribunal","quote":"No estamos de acuerdo con el sistema político de nuestro país, y eso no es delito","quote_en":"We do not agree with the political system of our country, and that is not a crime","context":"\"No estamos de acuerdo con el sistema político de nuestro país, y eso no es delito\", había clamado la 'influencer' ante la prensa extranjera antes de entrar al tribunal","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"No estamos de acuerdo con el sistema político de nuestro país, y eso no es delito","context_en":"No estamos de acuerdo con el sistema político de nuestro país, y eso no es delito","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/operativos-policiales-horas-previas-juicio_1_1131415.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6a506ff2b66d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T13:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Treasury releases rules for nation’s first federal school voucher program","headline":"Treasury issued rules for the first US federal school voucher program in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"With the arrival of the long-awaited rules, Democratic governors are under more pressure to say whether they will opt in.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"With the arrival of the long-awaited rules, Democratic governors are under more pressure to say whether they will opt in.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2026/10/01/treasury-introduces-rules-nations-first-federal-school-voucher-program/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"04654a4a310d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:50:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DUBAI","what":"UAE and Israel launch probes after Flydubai flight to Tel Aviv forced down","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs commented on Thursday regarding an incident involving a Flydubai flight carrying Israeli passengers.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The UAE Ministry of Foreign Affairs commented on Thursday regarding an incident involving a Flydubai flight carrying Israeli passengers. Via its official account on the X platform, the Ministry stated: “The United Arab Emirates confirmed that it is following up on the incident involving Flydubai flight F21073, traveling from Dubai International Airport to Tel Aviv, …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2,"top":true,"topSim":0.59},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/uae-and-israel-launch-probes-after-flydubai-flight-to-tel-aviv-forced-down/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"096429842181","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:47:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Address by UN Special Representative for Children and Armed Conflict: UK statement to the OSCE","headline":"UK deputy ambassador James Ford urged Russia to stop violations against Ukrainian children in Ukraine","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Deputy Ambassador James Ford reaffirmed the UK's support for the UN Children and Armed Conflict mandate and called for accountability for grave violations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Deputy Ambassador James Ford reaffirmed the UK's support for the UN Children and Armed Conflict mandate and called for accountability for grave violations. He urged Russia to end violations against Ukrainian children, im…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/address-by-un-special-representative-for-children-and-armed-conflict-uk-statement-to-the-osce","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/the-facts-of-russias-war-against-ukraine-uk-statement-to-the-osce","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2ed4edd6779a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:31:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BELFAST","what":"Belfast cleantech firm CATAGEN takes off with government-backed finance","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Government-backed finance enables the CATAGEN Group to launch a new business division producing technology for sustainable aviation fuel (SAF)","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Government-backed finance enables the CATAGEN Group to launch a new business division producing technology for sustainable aviation fuel (SAF)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/belfast-cleantech-firm-catagen-takes-off-with-government-backed-finance","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cab9d83466c8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:31:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAGOYA","what":"Chang wins silver for Taiwan's best Asian Games men's compound result","headline":"Chang won silver in men's compound archery for Taiwan's best Asian Games result in Nagoya Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Nagoya, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nagoya, Oct. 1 (CNA) Taiwan's Chang Cheng-wei (張正韋) won a silver medal in the men's individual compound archery at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Thursday, recording the country's best finish in the event.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/sports/202610010020","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006800315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002006900315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261002004851315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9258161a5b41","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Ken Paxton says GOP convention hurt his campaign in secret recording","headline":"Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said in a secret recording that the GOP convention hurt his campaign","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In audio obtained by The New York Times, Texas AG Ken Paxton says the GOP's midterm conventions hurt his campaign.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In audio obtained by The New York Times, Texas AG Ken Paxton says the GOP's midterm conventions hurt his campaign.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/ken-paxton-says-gop-convention-hurt-his-campaign-in-secret-recording/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c89be12c18d8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:24:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Former Arizona fraternity leader sentenced to jail time after pledge dies in off-campus hazing","headline":"A former Northern Arizona University fraternity leader received a jail sentence after a pledge died from alcohol poisoning in an off-campus hazing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Carter Eslick, former Northern Arizona University fraternity leader, pleaded guilty to felony hazing in the alcohol poisoning death of a pledge.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Carter Eslick, former Northern Arizona University fraternity leader, pleaded guilty to felony hazing in the alcohol poisoning death of a pledge.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/former-arizona-fraternity-leader-sentenced-jail-time-pledge-dies-off-campus-hazing","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c261ae7778a5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:15:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Singapore launches government dating app as birth rate plunges","headline":"Singapore government launched a dating app as the city-state birth rate fell","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The city-state’s hands-on government helps with housing, health care, marriage, having kids and retirement.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The city-state’s hands-on government helps with housing, health care, marriage, having kids and retirement. Add dating to the list.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/10/01/singapore-launches-government-dating-app-birth-rate-plunges/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"eb38240f17ff","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:14:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MISSISSIPPI","what":"Vape store clerks near Ole Miss campus jailed, facing drug charges","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bank records linked two University of Mississippi students to Oxford vape shop purchases before their deaths, according to a newly unsealed DEA affidavit.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bank records linked two University of Mississippi students to Oxford vape shop purchases before their deaths, according to a newly unsealed DEA affidavit.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/ole-miss-vape-store-clerks-jailed-facing-federal-drug-charges","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ee0a99da0a1f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:12:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KINSHASA","what":"RDC : l’Intersyndicale de la santé dépose un préavis de grève de 7 jours","headline":"DRC: Health inter-union files 7-day strike notice","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"L’Intersyndicale du secteur de la santé a déposé, mercredi 30 septembre à Kinshasa, un préavis de grève de sept jours adressé au Gouvernement.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"L’Intersyndicale du secteur de la santé a déposé, mercredi 30 septembre à Kinshasa, un préavis de grève de sept jours adressé au Gouvernement. Dans une déclaration lue devant la presse, le syndicat dénonce le non-respect des engagements souscrits par l’exécutif national et menace de paralyser le secteur de la santé publique en l'absence de solutions aux revendications sociales des agents.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The health sector inter-union filed a seven-day strike notice with the Government on Wednesday 30 September in Kinshasa. In a statement read to the press, the union denounces the non-respect of commitments made by the national executive and threatens to paralyze the public health sector in the absence of solutions to the social demands of health workers.","context_en":"The health sector inter-union filed a seven-day strike notice with the Government on Wednesday 30 September in Kinshasa. In a statement read to the press, the union denounces the non-respect of commitments made by the national executive and threatens to paralyze the public health sector in the absence of solutions to the social demands of health workers.","lang":"fr","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/sante/rdc-lintersyndicale-de-la-sante-depose-un-preavis-de-greve-de-7-jours","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b687ac6e93d0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:11:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WATSA","what":"Déversement de produits chimiques dans une rivière à Watsa, la société civile réclame une enquête indépendante","headline":"Chemical spill in a river at Watsa, civil society demands independent investigation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un camion de la société minière Kibali Gold Mines s'est renversé, mardi 29 septembre, dans une rivière située sur la route Durba-Faradje, entre les localités de Tanzi et d’Abinva, dans le territoire de Watsa (Haut-Uele).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un camion de la société minière Kibali Gold Mines s'est renversé, mardi 29 septembre, dans une rivière située sur la route Durba-Faradje, entre les localités de Tanzi et d’Abinva, dans le territoire de Watsa (Haut-Uele). La société civile affirme que le camion était chargé de l’acide ; ce que dément l’entreprise minière.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A truck belonging to the mining company Kibali Gold Mines overturned on Tuesday 29 September in a river on the Durba-Faradje road between the localities of Tanzi and Abinva, in Watsa territory (Haut-Uele). Civil society says the truck was carrying acid; the mining company denies it.","context_en":"A truck belonging to the mining company Kibali Gold Mines overturned on Tuesday 29 September in a river on the Durba-Faradje road between the localities of Tanzi and Abinva, in Watsa territory (Haut-Uele). Civil society says the truck was carrying acid; the mining company denies it.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/societe/deversement-de-produits-chimiques-dans-une-riviere-watsa-la-societe","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"15ff11a79e36","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:07:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EGYPT","what":"Five-day weather forecast predicts warm days and cool autumn nights across Egypt","headline":"The Egyptian Meteorological Authority forecast warm days and cool autumn nights across Egypt from October 2 to 6","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Egyptian Meteorological Authority (EMA) revealed the expected weather conditions from Friday, October 2, to Tuesday, October 6.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Egyptian Meteorological Authority (EMA) revealed the expected weather conditions from Friday, October 2, to Tuesday, October 6. The Authority noted that the country will experience moderate autumn weather in the early morning, turning warm during the day along the northern coast, hot across Lower Egypt, Greater Cairo, and Northern Upper Egypt, and very hot …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/five-day-weather-forecast-predicts-warm-days-and-cool-autumn-nights-across-egypt/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eca07352c133","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:04:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MIDRAND","what":"SA retains position as seventh-leading country globally in civil aviation","headline":"South Africa kept its rank as the seventh-leading country globally for civil aviation safety effectiveness","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SA retains position as seventh-leading country globally in civil aviation South Africa has retained its position as the highest-ranking country in Africa and the seventh-leading country globally for the effectiveness…","quote":"This outcome from the United Nations’ specialised agency for international aviation safety and security affirms once again the strength and maturity of the country’s aviation safety oversight system,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SA retains position as seventh-leading country globally in civil aviation South Africa has retained its position as the highest-ranking country in Africa and the seventh-leading country globally for the effectiveness of its civil aviation safety system. This is according to Transport Minister Barbara Creecy, who received confirmation from the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) last month, that the country had achieved a final safety rating of 94.99%.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/sa-retains-position-seventh-leading-country-globally-civil-aviation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"429036a4e08a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T12:01:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED KINGDOM","what":"30% boost to UK military transport aircraft availability under new deal","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"MoD extends £190 million contract with Airbus to maintain the RAF's A400M Atlas fleet, boosting aircraft availability while sustaining over 350 UK jobs.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"MoD extends £190 million contract with Airbus to maintain the RAF's A400M Atlas fleet, boosting aircraft availability while sustaining over 350 UK jobs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/30-boost-to-uk-military-transport-aircraft-availability-under-new-deal","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ab247403535a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:56:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Cabinet proposes extending bond, bond ETF tax exemption for 10 years","headline":"Taiwan cabinet approved 10-year extension of tax exemption on corporate bonds, financial bonds and bond ETFs through 2036 and added actively managed ones","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) The Cabinet on Thursday approved a draft amendment to the Securities Transaction Tax Act that would extend a tax exemption on corporate bonds, financial bonds and passive bond exchange-traded funds (ETFs) for another 10 years, through Dec. 31, 2036, while expanding the exemption to actively managed bond ETFs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610010019","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cfbc6d2f89ca","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:55:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Joint statement by the European Commission and Ukraine","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Statement Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 Today through coordinated joint efforts, we have identified the means to cover Ukraine's budget and defence needs for 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Statement Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 Today through coordinated joint efforts, we have identified the means to cover Ukraine's budget and defence needs for 2026. We have also reconfirmed the steps n...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_26_2045","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/presentation-of-the-2027-unified-budget-proposal-uk-statement-to-the-osce","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b6c7da2b243b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:52:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Rosendahl fyrer topchef og indsætter midlertidigt ejer","headline":"Rosendahl fires CEO and appoints interim owner","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rosendahl fyrer topchef og indsætter midlertidigt ejer","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Rosendahl has fired its top executive and installed an interim owner.","context_en":"Rosendahl has fired its top executive and installed an interim owner.","lang":"da","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/rosendahl-fyrer-topchef-og-indsaetter-midlertidigt-ejer","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"08f21e94a1af","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:44:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"14 Taipei students fall ill after eating tung nuts, one under observation","headline":"14 students in Taipei, Taiwan fell ill after eating tung nuts at school, one under observation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Fourteen junior high school students at Taipei Huaxing High School were rushed to local hospitals Thursday after eating nuts from tung trees on the school campus during the noon break, with 13 expected to be discharged by the evening and one remaining under observation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610010018","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"00e57d2b3d7a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:44:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Ai Mori takes women's boulder silver, edged out by China's Zhang at Asian Games","headline":"Japan's Ai Mori took silver in women's bouldering at the Aichi Asian Games on Thursday behind China's Zhang","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan's Ai Mori took silver in the women's sport climbing boulder event at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Thursday, finis Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan's Ai Mori took silver in the women's sport climbing boulder event at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Thursday, finis Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86942","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"43cc8fe2e1cd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:43:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HERNING","what":"Togtrafik indstillet mellem Herning og Struer","headline":"Train traffic suspended between Herning and Struer","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Togtrafik indstillet mellem Herning og Struer","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Train traffic has been suspended between Herning and Struer.","context_en":"Train traffic has been suspended between Herning and Struer.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/togtrafik-indstillet-mellem-holstebro-og-struer","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8c4e65555b9c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:37:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CAPE TOWN","what":"Manamela congratulates UCT on global university ranking","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Manamela congratulates UCT on global university ranking Higher Education and Training Minister Buti Manamela has congratulated the University of Cape Town (UCT) on its rise to 147th place in the Times Higher Education…","quote":"Its return to the global top 150 is a significant achievement for UCT and South African higher education,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Manamela congratulates UCT on global university ranking Higher Education and Training Minister Buti Manamela has congratulated the University of Cape Town (UCT) on its rise to 147th place in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2027. The university is the highest-ranked university in sub-Saharan Africa, climbing to joint 147th position from its joint 164th position last year.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/manamela-congratulates-uct-global-university-ranking","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cc302428025d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:34:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Meeting held at Palazzo Chigi on measures for families, young people and the vulnerable","headline":"Meeting held at Palazzo Chigi on measures for families, young people and the vulnerable","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Undersecretary of State to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers Alfredo Mantovano, Minister of Economy and Finance Giancarlo Giorgetti, Minister for the Family, Birth Rate and Equal Opportunities Eugenia Roccell…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$21","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Undersecretary of State Alfredo Mantovano, Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti, Minister Eugenia Roccella, Minister Alessandra Locatelli, Undersecretary Paola Frassinetti and other government representatives met today at Palazzo Chigi with delegations from the 'Ditelo sui tetti' associations and the Forum delle Associazioni familiari, headed by presidents Domenico Menorello and Adriano Bordignon. The","context_en":"Undersecretary of State Alfredo Mantovano, Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti, Minister Eugenia Roccella, Minister Alessandra Locatelli, Undersecretary Paola Frassinetti and other government representatives met today at Palazzo Chigi with delegations from the 'Ditelo sui tetti' associations and the Forum delle Associazioni familiari, headed by presidents Domenico Menorello and Adriano Bordignon. The","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32706","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32705","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/media/misure-le-famiglie-i-giovani-e-le-persone-fragili-incontro-palazzo-chigi/32702","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/misure-le-famiglie-i-giovani-e-le-persone-fragili-incontro-palazzo-chigi/32699","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6347892d1451","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Belief that college is very important hits new low, poll finds","headline":"Fewer Americans say college is very important than ever before","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The number of Americans who say a college education is “very important” has dropped to an all-time low of 31 percent, according to a Gallup poll.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The number of Americans who say a college education is “very important” has dropped to an all-time low of 31 percent, according to a Gallup poll.","summary":"Gallup found that 31 percent of Americans now call a college education very important. That is the lowest share since the poll began asking the question in 2010. The drop comes as college costs have risen and many question the value of a degree.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Americans once saw a four-year college degree as the clearest path to steady work and a stable middle-class life. That view took hold after World War II when the GI Bill sent millions to campuses and employers began treating the diploma as a standard job filter. For decades the share who called college very important sat above 60 percent in repeated surveys.\n\nA Gallup poll released October 1 put that figure at 31 percent, the lowest point recorded since the question first appeared in 2010. The drop continued a slide that began after the 2008 financial crisis when tuition kept climbing while wages for graduates flattened in many fields.\n\nThe new number leaves most Americans neutral or outright skeptical about the value of a degree. The poll now turns on whether the long-standing link between campus credentials and economic payoff has broken for enough people to change hiring rules, loan policies, and family spending habits.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2026/10/01/belief-that-college-is-very-important-hits-new-low-poll-finds/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"fb7e6d836a59","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:22:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MBUJI-MAYI","what":"Face à la surpopulation carcérale, la tuberculose gagne du terrain à la prison centrale de Mbuji-Mayi","headline":"Faced with prison overcrowding, tuberculosis spreads at Mbuji-Mayi central prison","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La situation demeure préoccupante à la prison centrale de Mbuji-Mayi, où plus de 450 détenus vivent aujourd’hui dans des conditions extrêmement précaires, alors que cet établissement a été conçu pour accueillir enviro…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La situation demeure préoccupante à la prison centrale de Mbuji-Mayi, où plus de 450 détenus vivent aujourd’hui dans des conditions extrêmement précaires, alors que cet établissement a été conçu pour accueillir environ 150 personnes. La surpopulation, le manque de nourriture et l’insalubrité favorisent la propagation des maladies, notamment la tuberculose.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The situation remains worrying at the central prison of Mbuji-Mayi, where more than 450 detainees now live in extremely precarious conditions, while the facility was designed to accommodate about 150 people. Overcrowding, lack of food and unsanitary conditions favor the spread of diseases, notably tuberculosis.","context_en":"The situation remains worrying at the central prison of Mbuji-Mayi, where more than 450 detainees now live in extremely precarious conditions, while the facility was designed to accommodate about 150 people. Overcrowding, lack of food and unsanitary conditions favor the spread of diseases, notably tuberculosis.","lang":"fr","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/justice/face-la-surpopulation-carcerale-la-tuberculose-gagne-du-terrain-la","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5b1c4befd79a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:20:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Security Open Call 2026 Cycle 2: New Focus Area Added","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"UKDI and the Department for Transport are looking for proposals that could help strengthen the security and resilience of the UK transport network.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"UKDI and the Department for Transport are looking for proposals that could help strengthen the security and resilience of the UK transport network.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/security-open-call-2026-cycle-2-new-focus-area-added","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dc62f786d491","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:14:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EGYPT","what":"Egypt’s Ministry of Interior launches new traffic system starting Thursday","headline":"Egypt's interior ministry started a single-window traffic licensing system on Thursday October 1 after orders from President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Following orders from President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the Ministry of Interior issued a series of decisions aimed at facilitating traffic licensing procedures across driver and vehicle registration units.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Following orders from President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the Ministry of Interior issued a series of decisions aimed at facilitating traffic licensing procedures across driver and vehicle registration units. These measures include implementing a “single-window” system for issuing and renewing all types of licenses and eliminating mandatory safety equipment requirements. Starting Thursday, October 1 traffic units …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/egypts-ministry-of-interior-launches-new-traffic-system-starting-thursday/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"66da96c8dd43","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:07:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VILNIUS","what":"Lithuanian Muslim mufti charged in human trafficking case involving Filipino workers","headline":"Lithuanian police named mufti Romas Jakubauskas a suspect in a human trafficking and forgery probe in Lithuania","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Romas Jakubauskas, the mufti of Lithuania’s Sunni Muslim Spiritual Centre, has been charged in a human trafficking investigation involving Filipino workers brought to Lithuania and employed at poultry farms, the Vilni…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Romas Jakubauskas, the mufti of Lithuania’s Sunni Muslim Spiritual Centre, has been charged in a human trafficking investigation involving Filipino workers brought to Lithuania and employed at poultry farms, the Vilnius Regional Prosecutor’s Office confirmed Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069248/lithuanian-muslim-mufti-charged-in-human-trafficking-case-involving-filipino-workers","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068364/lithuanian-muslim-mufti-named-suspect-in-human-trafficking-forgery-probe","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"57d4a36f37d5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T11:06:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORWAY","what":"Israeli tourist killed in kayaking accident in Norway","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Man, 26, drowns after kayak overturns in rough weather during Norway vacation; friend injured and hospitalized locally","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Man, 26, drowns after kayak overturns in rough weather during Norway vacation; friend injured and hospitalized locally","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"A 26-year-old Israeli man from Givat Ze’ev near Jerusalem was on vacation in Norway with friends on 1 October 2026. The group set out in a kayak that day in an area hit by rough weather. The kayak overturned in the conditions.\n\nThe man drowned after he went into the water. One friend suffered injuries and was airlifted by helicopter to a hospital in Bergen. Local authorities recovered the body and notified Israeli officials.\n\nThe Israeli Foreign Ministry assigned the embassy in Oslo and its department that assists citizens abroad to work with Norwegian authorities on the case. The ministry has stayed in contact with the family and is providing support. ZAKA’s international division began coordinating with Norwegian officials to prepare the body for release and transport to Israel for burial.","sources":[{"outlet":"Ynetnews","url":"https://www.ynetnews.com/article/r1a6jho9gl","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b0ded04d06a3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T10:59:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KAOHSIUNG","what":"DPP, KMT candidates for Kaohsiung mayor ramp up campaigns","headline":"DPP candidate Lai Jui-lung released his first campaign video in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, while KMT rival Ko Chih-en visited markets there on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kaohsiung, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kaohsiung, Oct. 1 (CNA) Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) Kaohsiung mayoral candidate Lai Jui-lung (賴瑞隆) on Thursday released his first campaign video, while his Kuomintang (KMT) opponent Ko Chih-en (柯志恩) visited traditional markets in the southern port city.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610010017","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"431532783435","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T10:53:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHIBA","what":"Expressway from Chiba across Tokyo Bay closed due to fatal multivehicle accident","headline":"A multivehicle accident killed two truck occupants on the Chiba to Tokyo Bay expressway in Japan on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two people in a truck died on Thursday after a multivehicle accident on the expressway that crosses Tokyo Bay connecting Chiba and Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two people in a truck died on Thursday after a multivehicle accident on the expressway that crosses Tokyo Bay connecting Chiba and Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86879","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"95379986f026","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T10:43:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GENEVA","what":"UN Human Rights Council 63: UK Statement for the Item 9 General Debate","headline":"UK delivered its statement for the Item 9 General Debate at the 63rd UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva, Switzerland","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"UK Statement for the Item 9 General Debate.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"UK Statement for the Item 9 General Debate. Delivered at the 63rd Human Rights Council in Geneva.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/un-human-rights-council-63-uk-statement-for-the-item-9-general-debate","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d4137c711980","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T10:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"East Japan experiences record rain, least sunlight for September","headline":"Eastern Japan saw record September rainfall and least sunlight since records began in 1946","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Eastern Japan observed its highest amount of rain for September since data became available in 1946, as well as the least sunlight Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Eastern Japan observed its highest amount of rain for September since data became available in 1946, as well as the least sunlight Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86929","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"6fb556668794","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T09:59:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"3 ex-servicemen indicted for allegedly spying for China","headline":"Taiwan prosecutors indicted three former servicemen for spying for China since 2020","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) The Taiwan High Prosecutors Office's Kaohsiung Branch on Thursday indicted three former military personnel for allegedly collecting military secrets for China since 2020.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610010015","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ecd88709c620","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T09:26:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"35% of junior, senior high students have appearance anxiety: Survey","headline":"A survey showed 35 percent of junior and senior high students in Taiwan have appearance anxiety, the Child Welfare League Foundation said Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) A recent survey has shown that 35 percent of junior and senior high school students in Taiwan experience anxiety over their appearance, including almost half of girls, the Child Welfare League Foundation (CWLF) said Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610010014","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e5edcbd4647d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T09:00:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Micron's Taiwan investment exceeds NT$1.6 trillion: Top executive","headline":"Micron has invested more than NT$1.6 trillion in Taiwan with half of it in the past four years its chairman said Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Micron Technology Inc. has so far invested more than NT$1.6 trillion (US$50 billion) in Taiwan, with about half of that investment made over the past four years, according to Micron Taiwan Chairman Donghui Lu (盧東暉) on Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010013","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610020002","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010007","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6215c0296d15","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:57:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Europe must scale up research and innovation to remain competitive, new Commission report says","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 The European Commission published today the 2026 edition of the Science, Research and Innovation Performance of the EU report, providing a comprehensive assessme…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 The European Commission published today the 2026 edition of the Science, Research and Innovation Performance of the EU report, providing a comprehensive assessment of Europe's research and innovation landscape.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2041","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2039","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8abcdd08dcf2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:40:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Opening Statement by Commissioner Kubilius at the European Parliament Security and Defence Committee hearings","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 It's a pleasure to come back to SEDE.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 It's a pleasure to come back to SEDE. I am grateful for our great partnership. First of all, I have sent you my annual implementation report. And I welcome yo...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2040","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/mex_26_2038","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b2f0520be081","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:27:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Starlux launches 5 weekly flights between Taiwan and Bali","headline":"Starlux Airlines launched five weekly flights between Taiwan and Bali on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Starlux Airlines launched its new Taipei-Bali route Thursday, operating five weekly flights as it seeks to attract travelers from Europe and North America to Bali via Taiwan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010012","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f6f18fe506c5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:27:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Kongen og dronningen får besøg fra Vietnam","headline":"King and Queen to receive visit from Vietnam","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kongen og dronningen får besøg fra Vietnam","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The King and Queen will receive a visit from Vietnam.","context_en":"The King and Queen will receive a visit from Vietnam.","lang":"da","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/kongen-og-dronningen-faar-besoeg-fra-vietnam","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e686775757ee","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:15:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuanian prosecutors ease remand measures for MP Saulius Skvernelis","headline":"Prosecutors in Lithuania eased remand conditions for MP Saulius Skvernelis in a State Plant Service corruption case so he no longer wears an ankle monitor","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lithuanian prosecutors have eased remand measures for lawmaker Saulius Skvernelis, a suspect in a corruption investigation involving the State Plant Service, meaning he will no longer be required to wear an electronic…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lithuanian prosecutors have eased remand measures for lawmaker Saulius Skvernelis, a suspect in a corruption investigation involving the State Plant Service, meaning he will no longer be required to wear an electronic ankle monitor.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069147/lithuanian-prosecutors-ease-remand-measures-for-mp-saulius-skvernelis","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"654b5d01430f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:07:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"TFDA fines probiotic firm for 7th time this year over kidney disease ads","headline":"Taiwan's TFDA fined a probiotic seller NT$4.02 million this year for seven false kidney disease ads","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"reverse kidney disease,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) A probiotic seller has been fined a total of NT$4.02 million (US$125,000) this year for repeated violations over advertisements falsely claiming that the product could \"reverse kidney disease,\" Taiwan's Food and Drug Administration (TFDA) said Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610010010","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d034300de83d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:06:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KUNAR","what":"Pakistan launches deadly air strikes on Afghanistan","headline":"Muslims in Pakistan launched air strikes that killed nine civilians in Kunar, Afghanistan, the Taliban said","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Afghan Taliban says nine civilians have died while Pakistan says the strikes killed 22 militants.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Afghan Taliban says nine civilians have died while Pakistan says the strikes killed 22 militants.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$22","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cw4grg92lmr5o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/afghanistan-pakistan-airstrikes-civilians-children-killed-unama/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"22b6f77d081b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T08:03:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Poland, Sweden, Belgium, Estonia and Cyprus receive more than €9.8 billion under NextGenerationEU","headline":"The European Commission paid Poland, Sweden, Belgium, Estonia and Cyprus more than 9.8 billion euros under NextGenerationEU on 1 October 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 The European Commission has disbursed today more than €9.8 billion to Poland, Sweden, Belgium, Estonia and Cyprus under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 01 Oct 2026 The European Commission has disbursed today more than €9.8 billion to Poland, Sweden, Belgium, Estonia and Cyprus under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), the centrepiece of NextGenerationEU.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2037","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2036","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4763cdae46b3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:58:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"CGA appoints vice admiral as deputy head to counter China threat","headline":"Taiwan named vice admiral Yuan Sheng-hua deputy head of the Coast Guard Administration on October 1 to improve Navy coordination against Chinese maritime pressure","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Vice Admiral Yuan Sheng-hua (原聖華) on Thursday became the first Navy officer to serve as a deputy director-general of the Coast Guard Administration (CGA), tasked with improving coordination between the Navy and Coast Guard in response to maritime pressure from China.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202610010009","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"28eb5d7c413a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:27:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NAMIBIA","what":"Namibia: Over Half of Namibia's Unmarried Women Are Already Mothers, Census Shows","headline":"Census shows more than half of Namibia's unmarried women have given birth","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"[Namibian] More than half of Namibia's women who have never married have given birth, according to the 2023 Population and Housing Census Fertility Report.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"[Namibian] More than half of Namibia's women who have never married have given birth, according to the 2023 Population and Housing Census Fertility Report.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:14000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"AllAfrica","url":"https://allafrica.com/stories/202610010123.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b38df5d79f6e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:17:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Fuel surcharge for international flights to rise from Oct. 7","headline":"Taiwan's Civil Aviation Administration raised fuel surcharges for international flights from Oct. 7 due to higher aviation fuel prices","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Fuel surcharges for international flights operated by Taiwanese carriers will increase from Oct. 7 due to a recent rise in international aviation fuel prices, the Civil Aviation Administration (CAA) said Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010008","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"45559aee77ad","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:05:43.959Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TURKEY","what":"Turkey manufacturing PMI falls to 47.9 in September, S&P Global says","headline":"Turkey manufacturing PMI dropped to 47.9 in September according to S&P Global on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Turkey manufacturing PMI falls to 47.9 in September, S&P Global says","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/turkey-manufacturing-pmi-falls-479-september-sp-global-says-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"79a418720b9b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:02:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANARY ISLANDS","what":"El Senado vota hoy la delimitación de aguas con Marruecos para que Canarias sea \"archipiélago de pleno derecho\"","headline":"Senate votes today on maritime boundary with Morocco so Canary Islands can be 'archipelago of full right'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Comisión General de las Comunidades Autónomas del Senado debatirá y votará este jueves una iniciativa de un grupo de El Hierro que insta al Gobierno a promover los acuerdos entre España y Marruecos sobre delimitaci…","quote":"archipiélago de pleno derecho","quote_en":"archipelago of full right","context":"La Comisión General de las Comunidades Autónomas del Senado debatirá y votará este jueves una iniciativa de un grupo de El Hierro que insta al Gobierno a promover los acuerdos entre España y Marruecos sobre delimitación marítima para que Canarias deje de ser considerado un grupo de islas para ser reconocida internacionalmente como un \"archipiélago de pleno derecho\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The General Commission of Autonomous Communities of the Senate will debate and vote this Thursday on an initiative from a group from El Hierro that urges the Government to promote agreements between Spain and Morocco on maritime delimitation so that the Canary Islands stop being considered a group of islands and are internationally recognized as an 'archipelago of full right'.","context_en":"The General Commission of Autonomous Communities of the Senate will debate and vote this Thursday on an initiative from a group from El Hierro that urges the Government to promote agreements between Spain and Morocco on maritime delimitation so that the Canary Islands stop being considered a group of islands and are internationally recognized as an 'archipelago of full right'.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/10/01/el-senado-vota-hoy-la-delimitacion-de-aguas-con-marruecos-para-que-canarias-sea-archipielago-de-pleno-derecho/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7d744f5a7784","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDIA","what":"India describe como \"un héroe\" al piloto del vuelo de Flydubai a Israel por \"evitar una gran tragedia\"","headline":"India describes as 'a hero' the pilot of the Flydubai flight to Israel for 'averting a major tragedy'","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El primer ministro de India, Narendra Modi, ha ensalzado este jueves la labor del piloto del vuelo de Flydubai desviado el miércoles a Arabia Saudí cuando cubría una ruta entre Emiratos Árabes Unidos (EAU) e Israel y…","quote":"El capitán Smit Machchhar es un héroe.","quote_en":"Captain Smit Machchhar is a hero.","context":"El primer ministro de India, Narendra Modi, ha ensalzado este jueves la labor del piloto del vuelo de Flydubai desviado el miércoles a Arabia Saudí cuando cubría una ruta entre Emiratos Árabes Unidos (EAU) e Israel y ha destacado que es \"un héroe\" por sus acciones después de resultar herido en un \"altercado\" en cabina durante un supuesto intento de secuestro del aparato. \"El capitán Smit Machchhar es un héroe.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised the work of the pilot of the Flydubai flight that was diverted to Saudi Arabia on Wednesday while flying a route between the United Arab Emirates and Israel, and highlighted that he is 'a hero' for his actions after being injured in an 'altercation' in the cockpit during an alleged hijacking attempt.","context_en":"Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised the work of the pilot of the Flydubai flight that was diverted to Saudi Arabia on Wednesday while flying a route between the United Arab Emirates and Israel, and highlighted that he is 'a hero' for his actions after being injured in an 'altercation' in the cockpit during an alleged hijacking attempt.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.639},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The United Arab Emirates and Israel opened commercial flights between their capitals in 2020 after the Abraham Accords normalized ties. Those routes continued through the US-Iran war that began with American and Israeli strikes in late February 2026 and settled into weekly exchanges focused on control of the Strait of Hormuz. The UAE cut trade with Iran on August 19 after accusing Tehran of firing two missiles toward its waters.\n\nOn September 30 a Flydubai crew member was injured in an altercation inside the cockpit of a flight bound from Dubai to Tel Aviv. The captain kept control of the aircraft and diverted it safely to a Saudi airport.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 1 called the captain a hero for preventing the loss of the plane and its passengers. The incident occurred inside the pattern of Gulf states tightening links with the US and its partners while the Hormuz fight continued.","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/01/india-describe-como-un-heroe-al-piloto-del-vuelo-de-flydubai-a-israel-por-evitar-una-gran-tragedia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910260","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/mundo/2026/10/01/el-presidente-de-israel-anuncio-premios-al-heroismo-para-cuatro-pasajeros-del-vuelo-de-flydubai-que-intervinieron-durante-el-ataque/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3c051aad681d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SPAIN","what":"La superficie forestal quemada en España supera la barrera de las 300.000 hectáreas","headline":"Forest area burned in Spain exceeds 300,000 hectares","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Madrid, 1 oct (EFE).- La superficie forestal quemada en España en los primeros nueve meses del año se sitúa en 300.998 hectáreas, más de tres veces la media de las últimas dos décadas por estas fechas, tras haberse in…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Madrid, 1 oct (EFE).- La superficie forestal quemada en España en los primeros nueve meses del año se sitúa en 300.998 hectáreas, más de tres veces la media de las últimas dos décadas por estas fechas, tras haberse incrementado en 1.165 hectáreas en la última semana, según datos actualizados del Sistema Europeo de Información Sobre Incendios Forestales (EFFIS).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Madrid, 1 Oct (EFE) - The forest area burned in Spain in the first nine months of the year stands at 300,998 hectares, more than three times the average of the last two decades at this point, after increasing by 1,165 hectares in the last week, according to updated data from the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS).","context_en":"Madrid, 1 Oct (EFE) - The forest area burned in Spain in the first nine months of the year stands at 300,998 hectares, more than three times the average of the last two decades at this point, after increasing by 1,165 hectares in the last week, according to updated data from the European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/10/01/la-superficie-forestal-quemada-en-espana-supera-la-barrera-de-las-300000-hectareas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8963bf1e8d1e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SPAIN","what":"Las lluvias y tormentas ponen en aviso a 9 CCAA, 5 en nivel naranja por precipitaciones, con olas en Galicia","headline":"Rain and storms put 9 Spanish regions on alert, 5 at orange level for rainfall, with waves in Galicia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las lluvias y las tormentas pondrán este jueves en aviso a ocho comunidades autónomas (CCAA) en un día en el que cinco alcanzarán el nivel naranja por precipitaciones --Aragón, Baleares, Castilla-La Mancha, Cataluña y…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las lluvias y las tormentas pondrán este jueves en aviso a ocho comunidades autónomas (CCAA) en un día en el que cinco alcanzarán el nivel naranja por precipitaciones --Aragón, Baleares, Castilla-La Mancha, Cataluña y Comunidad Valenciana-- y habrá aviso por oleaje en Galicia, según la predicción de la Agencia Estatal de Meteorología (AEMET). En concreto, los avisos de nivel naranja por lluvia se encuentran en Teruel; Mallorca; Cuenca; Lleida y Tarragona; y Alicante, Castellón y Valencia.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Rain and storms will put eight autonomous communities on alert this Thursday, with five reaching the orange level for rainfall -- Aragon, Balearic Islands, Castilla-La Mancha, Catalonia and Valencian Community -- and there will be a wave warning in Galicia, according to the forecast of the State Meteorological Agency (AEMET).","context_en":"Rain and storms will put eight autonomous communities on alert this Thursday, with five reaching the orange level for rainfall -- Aragon, Balearic Islands, Castilla-La Mancha, Catalonia and Valencian Community -- and there will be a wave warning in Galicia, according to the forecast of the State Meteorological Agency (AEMET).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/01/las-lluvias-y-tormentas-ponen-en-aviso-a-9-ccaa-5-en-nivel-naranja-por-precipitaciones-con-olas-en-galicia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d7815025f50a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TENNESSEE","what":"US death row inmate survives execution attempt after two lethal injections","headline":"Tennessee put Christa Pike to death with two lethal injections but she lived and went to hospital","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Killer Christa Pike's lawyer says she is being given \"life-saving measures\" in hospital after two syringes of pentobarbital.","quote":"life-saving measures","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Killer Christa Pike's lawyer says she is being given \"life-saving measures\" in hospital after two syringes of pentobarbital.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.5033},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$23","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cq8r6rjdvlx6o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/01/world/us-execution-attempt-death-row/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/christa-pike-lethal-injection/107216194","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/americas/20261001-execution-of-convicted-us-killer-christa-pike-fails-despite-two-lethal-injections","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/US/execution-lone-woman-tennessees-death-row-paused-federal/story?id=136893331","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dd8e80f8edeb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwán transfiere a un alto cargo de la Armada a la Guardia Costera ante presión de China","headline":"Taiwan transfers senior Navy officer to Coast Guard amid pressure from China","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipéi, 1 oct (EFE).- El Gobierno de Taiwán nombró este jueves a un alto cargo de la Armada como nuevo subdirector de la Guardia Costera, en una muestra de los esfuerzos de la isla por reforzar la \"cooperación\" entre…","quote":"El mandatario recalcó en su discurso que las Fuerzas Armadas y la Guardia Costera","quote_en":"The president stressed in his speech that the Armed Forces and the Coast Guard","context":"Taipéi, 1 oct (EFE).- El Gobierno de Taiwán nombró este jueves a un alto cargo de la Armada como nuevo subdirector de la Guardia Costera, en una muestra de los esfuerzos de la isla por reforzar la \"cooperación\" entre ambos cuerpos ante la creciente presión marítima de China. En una ceremonia de ascensos celebrada en la Oficina Presidencial, el mandatario taiwanés, Lai Ching-te, anunció que el vicealmirante Yuan Sheng-hua pasará de subjefe del Estado Mayor de la Armada a subdirector general de la Administración de la Guardia Costera (CGA).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The government of Taiwan appointed a senior Navy officer as the new deputy director of the Coast Guard on Thursday, in an effort by the island to strengthen cooperation between the two services in the face of growing maritime pressure from China.","context_en":"The government of Taiwan appointed a senior Navy officer as the new deputy director of the Coast Guard on Thursday, in an effort by the island to strengthen cooperation between the two services in the face of growing maritime pressure from China.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/01/taiwan-transfiere-a-un-alto-cargo-de-la-armada-a-la-guardia-costera-ante-presion-de-china/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3710411ba608","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:01:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"Buhari, other past presidents refused to take tough decisions – Tinubu","headline":"Tinubu said past presidents including Buhari failed to take tough decisions in Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"By 2023, poverty was rising, and hope was nearly gone.","quote":"By 2023, poverty was rising, and hope was nearly gone. The country's situation was darker than ever. We had no choice but to act,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"By 2023, poverty was rising, and hope was nearly gone. The country's situation was darker than ever. We had no choice but to act,\" Mr Tinubu said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/913703-buhari-other-past-presidents-refused-to-take-tough-decisions-tinubu.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"145ac9b8d2f5","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:00:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAZA","what":"Israel identifica en Hamás a dos de siete muertos ayer en Gaza, uno de ellos periodista","headline":"Israel identifies two of seven killed yesterday in Gaza as Hamas members, one of them a journalist","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"(Corrige con cifras del Ministerio de Sanidad gazatí) Jerusalén, 1 oct (EFE).- El Ejército de Israel identificó a dos de los siete muertos en sus bombardeos en Gaza el miércoles como miembros de Hamás, de los cuales u…","quote":"comandante de pelotón","quote_en":"platoon commander","context":"(Corrige con cifras del Ministerio de Sanidad gazatí) Jerusalén, 1 oct (EFE).- El Ejército de Israel identificó a dos de los siete muertos en sus bombardeos en Gaza el miércoles como miembros de Hamás, de los cuales uno era periodista, en comunicados en sus canales oficiales este jueves. Los fallecidos son Ammar Sharafi y Mohamed Nagar.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Jerusalem, 1 Oct (EFE). The Israeli Army identified two of the seven people killed in its strikes in Gaza on Wednesday as Hamas members, one of them a journalist, in statements on its official channels on Thursday. The deceased are Ammar Sharafi and Mohamed Nagar.","context_en":"Jerusalem, 1 Oct (EFE). The Israeli Army identified two of the seven people killed in its strikes in Gaza on Wednesday as Hamas members, one of them a journalist, in statements on its official channels on Thursday. The deceased are Ammar Sharafi and Mohamed Nagar.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The US and Israel opened strikes on Iran in late February 2026. The fight settled into weekly strike and counter-strike phases by early March, with naval clashes in the Strait of Hormuz. A June memorandum lifted the dual blockades and opened a 60-day negotiating window. It collapsed on 8 July and sustained US strikes resumed. The contest narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz.\n\nOn 30 September Israeli forces carried out strikes inside Gaza that killed seven people. The Israeli Army stated on 1 October that two of the dead were Hamas members and identified them as Ammar Sharafi and Mohamed Nagar, one a journalist.\n\nThe strikes form part of the separate Israel-Hamas fighting that has continued alongside the US-Iran conflict over Hormuz. The Israeli Army released the names through its official channels.","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/10/01/israel-identifica-en-hamas-a-dos-de-siete-muertos-ayer-en-gaza-uno-de-ellos-periodista/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"705a1fb17d2b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:00:09.788Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIETNAM","what":"Denmark's Pandora opens world's largest jewellery factory in Vietnam","headline":"Denmark opened the world's largest jewellery factory in Vietnam on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Denmark's Pandora opens world's largest jewellery factory in Vietnam","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/retail-consumer/denmarks-pandora-opens-worlds-largest-jewellery-factory-vietnam-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e69c7f825b2d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T07:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"(2nd LD) Seoul, Washington pick Texas power plant as 1st project under strategic investment","headline":"South Korea and the United States chose a Texas power plant as their first strategic investment project on Oct. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- South Korea and the United States have formally select...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001000551320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007000320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7146ccb4957a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:56:09.566Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"UK's SSE posts 20% jump in first-half renewable energy output, reiterates outlook","headline":"UK power company SSE reported 20 percent more renewable energy output in the first half of its year and held its forecast","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"UK's SSE posts 20% jump in first-half renewable energy output, reiterates outlook","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/uks-sse-posts-20-jump-first-half-renewable-energy-output-reiterates-outlook-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"74b4ed084c0b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:52:56.328Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Passengers foil bid to crash Dubai-Tel Aviv flight, Israel says, after co-pilot stabs pilot","headline":"Passengers stopped a co-pilot from crashing a Dubai to Tel Aviv flight after he stabbed the pilot, Israel said on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Passengers foil bid to crash Dubai-Tel Aviv flight, Israel says, after co-pilot stabs pilot","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":3},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/01/world/dubai-tel-aviv-flight-co-pilot-stabs/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/diverted-flydubai-flight-israel-was-not-hijacking-incident-israeli-prime-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/government/diplomacy/state-department-says-four-americans-were-board-dubai-flight-israel?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4c68c00c40ce","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:52:50.523Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UK","what":"UK annual house price growth weakest since December 2025 after surprise September drop","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"UK annual house price growth weakest since December 2025 after surprise September drop","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/uk-annual-house-price-growth-weakest-since-december-2025-after-surprise-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eba0f62976af","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:50:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMSTERDAM","what":"Il gas apre in calo sul mercato di Amsterdam (-0,8%)","headline":"Gas opens lower on Amsterdam market (-0.8%)","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"I future Ttf scendono a 71,79 euro al megawattora","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"I future Ttf scendono a 71,79 euro al megawattora","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"TTF futures fall to 71.79 euros per megawatt hour.","context_en":"TTF futures fall to 71.79 euros per megawatt hour.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/il-gas-apre-in-calo-sul-mercato-di-amsterdam-08_9a3fb64a-2d60-4f3e-bd59-6926d30672dc.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"85d213aaff17","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:48:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Lo spread Btp-Bund apre in rialzo a 104, salgono i rendimenti","headline":"Btp-Bund spread opens higher at 104, yields rise","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il decennale italiano al 4,63%, aggiorna i massimi da novembre 2023","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il decennale italiano al 4,63%, aggiorna i massimi da novembre 2023","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Italian 10-year yield stands at 4.63%, updating the highs since November 2023.","context_en":"The Italian 10-year yield stands at 4.63%, updating the highs since November 2023.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/lo-spread-btp-bund-apre-in-rialzo-a-104-salgono-i-rendimenti_4115de03-e29b-457f-aab2-4bbd2c9202c8.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ed5ada02800d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:48:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SIERRA LEONE","what":"Van Weel: Europa stopt betalingen aan Sierra Leone vanwege Bolle Jos","headline":"Van Weel: Europe stops payments to Sierra Leone because of Bolle Jos","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Europese Commissie heeft per direct betalingen aan Sierra Leone stopgezet omdat het land niet meewerkt aan de uitlevering van drugscrimineel Bolle Jos.","quote":"Met deze stap ben ik heel erg blij","quote_en":"I am very happy with this step","context":"De Europese Commissie heeft per direct betalingen aan Sierra Leone stopgezet omdat het land niet meewerkt aan de uitlevering van drugscrimineel Bolle Jos. Dat bevestigt minister Van Weel van Justitie en Veiligheid na een bericht in De Telegraaf. Sierra Leone zou dit jaar nog 18 miljoen euro aan begrotingssteun van Brussel krijgen. Nederland hoopt dat volgend jaar een uitkering van nog eens 20,5 miljoen kan worden stopgezet. Daar wordt nog over onderhandeld tussen de EU-lidstaten.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The European Commission has immediately halted payments to Sierra Leone because the country is not cooperating in the extradition of drug criminal Bolle Jos. This is confirmed by Justice and Security Minister Van Weel after a report in De Telegraaf. Sierra Leone was still due to receive 18 million euros in budget support from Brussels this year.","context_en":"The European Commission has immediately halted payments to Sierra Leone because the country is not cooperating in the extradition of drug criminal Bolle Jos. This is confirmed by Justice and Security Minister Van Weel after a report in De Telegraaf. Sierra Leone was still due to receive 18 million euros in budget support from Brussels this year.","lang":"nl","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633232","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f8af84ad60c0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:46:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"Casi 1,9 millones de contratos de alquiler se podrán prorrogar con el decreto, dice Sumar","headline":"Nearly 1.9 million rental contracts can be extended under the decree, says Sumar","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Madrid, 1 oct (EFE).- Más de 1,89 millones de contratos de alquiler se podrán prorrogar en España con la entrada en vigor de la prórroga de dos años para los que venzan antes del 31 de diciembre de 2028, una medida qu…","quote":"Más de 1,89 millones de contratos de alquiler se podrán prorrogar en España con la entrada en vigor de la prórroga de dos años para los que venzan antes del 31 de diciembre de 2028","quote_en":"More than 1.89 million rental contracts in Spain will be eligible for a two-year extension for those expiring before December 31, 2028","context":"Madrid, 1 oct (EFE).- Más de 1,89 millones de contratos de alquiler se podrán prorrogar en España con la entrada en vigor de la prórroga de dos años para los que venzan antes del 31 de diciembre de 2028, una medida que tendrá que convalidar este viernes el Congreso. Fuentes de Sumar han explicado este jueves que, teniendo en cuenta que según el Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INE) en cada hogar hay de media 2,5 personas, en total serían unos 5 millones de personas las beneficiadas por este medida.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"More than 1.89 million rental contracts in Spain will be eligible for a two-year extension for those expiring before December 31, 2028, a measure that Congress must validate this Friday. Sumar sources said Thursday that, based on the National Statistics Institute (INE) figure of 2.5 people per household on average, around 5 million people would benefit.","context_en":"More than 1.89 million rental contracts in Spain will be eligible for a two-year extension for those expiring before December 31, 2028, a measure that Congress must validate this Friday. Sumar sources said Thursday that, based on the National Statistics Institute (INE) figure of 2.5 people per household on average, around 5 million people would benefit.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/10/01/casi-19-millones-de-contratos-de-alquiler-se-podran-prorrogar-con-el-decreto-dice-sumar/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/10/01/el-boe-publica-el-decreto-de-prorroga-automatica-del-alquiler-que-entra-en-vigor-manana/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2e109e3b9eba","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:45:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LAGOS","what":"Ministry raises alarm over child labour, says 14.3m children in hazardous work","headline":"Nigeria's labour ministry said 14.3 million children work in hazardous jobs","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ministry raises alarm over child labour, says 14.3m children in hazardous work ​‌‌‍‌‌​‍⁠⁠‌⁠By Oluwatope Lawanson The Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment says child labour remains a major concern in Nigeria, with…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ministry raises alarm over child labour, says 14.3m children in hazardous work ​‌‌‍‌‌​‍⁠⁠‌⁠By Oluwatope Lawanson The Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment says child labour remains a major concern in Nigeria, with millions of children… News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/ministry-raises-alarm-over-child-labour-says-14-3m-children-in-hazardous-work/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4d6fa440dad0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:40:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"War update: 209 combat clashes on front lines over past day, heaviest fighting on Pokrovsk axis","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"On September 30, Ukrainian forces engaged in 209 combat clashes with Russian invaders on the front line, with the heaviest fighting reported in the Pokrovsk sector.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"On September 30, Ukrainian forces engaged in 209 combat clashes with Russian invaders on the front line, with the heaviest fighting reported in the Pokrovsk sector.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$24","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055912/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169858-war-update-209-combat-clashes-on-front-lines-over-past-day-heaviest-fighting-on-pokrovsk-axis.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3be8c8033509","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:36:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(LEAD) President to request confirmation hearing for embattled nominee for chief of investigation bureau","headline":"South Korea's President Lee Jae Myung will soon request a confirmation hearing for his embattled nominee to lead the investigation bureau in Seoul on Oct. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- President Lee Jae Myung will soon ask the National Ass...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007751315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007700315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"814a244dacff","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:36:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HANOI","what":"Vietnam to move all Hanoi-listed stocks to Ho Chi Minh index in December under market overhaul","headline":"Vietnam will move all stocks listed in Hanoi to the Ho Chi Minh index in December as part of a market overhaul","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Vietnam to move all Hanoi-listed stocks to Ho Chi Minh index in December under market overhaul","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/vietnam-move-all-hanoi-listed-stocks-ho-chi-minh-index-in-december-under-market-overhaul-6423696","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1391268edca8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:35:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Seoul stocks rise nearly 2 pct to end 3-day losing streak on chip gains","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- South Korean shares rose nearly 2 percent on Thursday,...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007900320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007800320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"daa635ee2165","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:34:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"Massage therapist jailed for more than 11 years on sexual offence charges","headline":"A massage therapist received more than 11 years in jail in Christchurch, New Zealand on 21 charges including rape, sexual violation and indecent assault","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Neil Yardeni was sentenced in the Christchurch District Court on 21 charges including rape, sexual violation and indecent assault.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Neil Yardeni was sentenced in the Christchurch District Court on 21 charges including rape, sexual violation and indecent assault.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1673775/massage-therapist-jailed-for-more-than-11-years-on-sexual-offence-charges","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c8b25eaf0d11","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:34:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UPPSALA","what":"Tonåring åtalas för mord – efter att man sköts ihjäl i Uppsala","headline":"Teenager charged with murder after man shot dead in Uppsala","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En 16-årig pojke har åtalats för mord efter att en 19-årig man sköts ihjäl på Kvarngärdet i Uppsala i somras.","quote":"Hans primära mål har varit en annan person än den 19-åring som senare blir ihjälskjuten","quote_en":"His primary target was a person other than the 19-year-old who was later shot dead.","context":"En 16-årig pojke har åtalats för mord efter att en 19-årig man sköts ihjäl på Kvarngärdet i Uppsala i somras. Pojken åtalas även för förberedelse till mord. – Hans primära mål har varit en annan person än den 19-åring som senare blir ihjälskjuten, säger åklagare Mia Sjöstedt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A 16-year-old boy has been charged with murder after a 19-year-old man was shot dead in Kvarngärdet, Uppsala, this summer. The boy is also charged with preparation for murder.","context_en":"A 16-year-old boy has been charged with murder after a 19-year-old man was shot dead in Kvarngärdet, Uppsala, this summer. The boy is also charged with preparation for murder.","lang":"sv","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/uppsala/tonaring-atalas-for-mord-efter-att-man-skots-ihjal-i-uppsala","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7e5084fab7ff","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:31:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AFGHANISTAN","what":"‘Calibrated’ air strikes target terrorist hideouts at two locations in Afghanistan: info ministry","headline":"Pakistan carried out air strikes on terrorist hideouts at two locations in Afghanistan on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Pakistan carried out “well-planned and calibrated” air strikes against terrorist hideouts in Afghanistan, the information ministry said on Thursday.","quote":"well-planned and calibrated","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pakistan carried out “well-planned and calibrated” air strikes against terrorist hideouts in Afghanistan, the information ministry said on Thursday. In a post on X, the ministry said the strikes were carried out in continuation of Operation Ghazab lil Haq and Pakistan’s resolve to eliminate terrorists, their networks and supporters. It said the aerial strikes targeted the hideouts and safe havens of terrorist organisations it referred to as Fitna al Khwarij and Fitna al Hindustan , and resulted in the deaths of “multiple terrorists”.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033937/calibrated-air-strikes-target-terrorist-hideouts-at-two-locations-in-afghanistan-info-ministry","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"24c48185e4b1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:31:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OKAZAKI","what":"(Asiad) S. Korea falls to 3-time defending champion Iran in men's volleyball quarterfinals","headline":"South Korea lost to three-time defending champion Iran in men's volleyball quarterfinals at Asiad in Okazaki, Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- South Korea lost a heartbreaker against the t...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001008200315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001006900315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"61b9de4176c4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:27:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"52.000 zieken kregen misschien de verkeerde uitkering, hersteloperatie van start","headline":"52,000 sick people may have received the wrong benefit, recovery operation begins","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Af en toe krijgt Maaike Keesen een brief van het UWV.","quote":"Mogelijk hebben we een fout gemaakt in de berekening van uw WIA-uitkering","quote_en":"It is possible that we have made a mistake in the calculation of your WIA benefit","context":"Af en toe krijgt Maaike Keesen een brief van het UWV. \"Mogelijk hebben we een fout gemaakt in de berekening van uw WIA-uitkering\", staat in een brief die de NOS heeft ingezien. Bijna een jaar later weet Keesen nog steeds niet wat dat betekent. En ze is niet de enige. Vandaag start het UWV met een enorme klus: de hersteloperatie die nodig is om vele duizenden mensen te compenseren die te weinig geld hebben gekregen via de WIA. Deze is bedoeld voor mensen die door ziekte niet meer kunnen werken.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Maaike Keesen occasionally receives a letter from the UWV. \"Mogelijk hebben we een fout gemaakt in de berekening van uw WIA-uitkering\" reads a letter that NOS has seen. Almost a year later, Keesen still does not know what it means. And she is not the only one. Today the UWV is starting a huge task: the recovery operation needed to compensate many thousands of people who have received too little","context_en":"Maaike Keesen occasionally receives a letter from the UWV. \"Mogelijk hebben we een fout gemaakt in de berekening van uw WIA-uitkering\" reads a letter that NOS has seen. Almost a year later, Keesen still does not know what it means. And she is not the only one. Today the UWV is starting a huge task: the recovery operation needed to compensate many thousands of people who have received too little","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633229","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"12557d0eb02c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:26:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KABETE","what":"Two arrested over counterfeit juice processing in Kabete","headline":"Police in Kenya arrested Alex Mwaruta and James Munala Inyangala for making counterfeit juice in Kabete","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Detectives from Kabete police station have arrested two suspects who were allegedly processing counterfeit juice at their home in Muthua, Kabete.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Detectives from Kabete police station have arrested two suspects who were allegedly processing counterfeit juice at their home in Muthua, Kabete. The two suspects, identified as Alex Mwaruta and James Munala Inyangala, were busted while in the middle of producing counterfeit juice following a whistle-blow by a member of the public. During the crackdown, detectives recovered approximately 1,400 filled 200ml and 300ml bottles of suspected counterfeit juice, 56 cartons of empty bottles, five packets of bottle tops, two blue drums and three assorted-colour basins.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Citizen Digital","url":"https://citizen.digital/article/two-arrested-over-counterfeit-juice-processing-in-kabete-n391214","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e3f2a5f979e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:19:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MYKOLAI V","what":"Man killed in Russian drone attack on Mykolaiv region this morning","headline":"A 50-year-old man died in a Russian drone attack on Vesniane in Ukraine's Mykolaiv region this morning","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 50-year-old man was killed in the Vesniane community of the Mykolaiv region as a result of a morning attack by Shahed-type UAVs.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 50-year-old man was killed in the Vesniane community of the Mykolaiv region as a result of a morning attack by Shahed-type UAVs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169855-man-killed-in-russian-drone-attack-on-mykolaiv-region-this-morning.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e5877e74ac28","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:15:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TURIN","what":"Schiavitù e violenza sessuale, scoperta una setta nel Torinese","headline":"Slavery and sexual violence, a sect discovered in the Turin area","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Arrestato un uomo di 59 anni, indagine dei carabinieri","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Arrestato un uomo di 59 anni, indagine dei carabinieri","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A 59-year-old man has been arrested in an investigation by the carabinieri.","context_en":"A 59-year-old man has been arrested in an investigation by the carabinieri.","lang":"it","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/schiavitu-e-violenza-sessuale-scoperta-una-setta-nel-torinese_132555d7-ef89-4903-abdb-0b2d30e76dd5.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"76c026fd8027","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:14:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DENMARK","what":"Portugal: Ronaldo walks away","headline":"Cristiano Ronaldo left Portugal training camp in Denmark after days of tensions with coach Jorge Jesus","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Cristiano Ronaldo has left Portugal’s training camp after several days of tensions with head coach Jorge Jesus.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Cristiano Ronaldo has left Portugal’s training camp after several days of tensions with head coach Jorge Jesus. Portuguese Football Federation president Pedro Proença travelled to Copenhagen to try to ease the situation, without success. Ronaldo eventually missed training and left Denmark on his private jet. The five-time Ballon d’Or winner must now explain his decision.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/tv-shows/sports/20261001-portugal-ronaldo-walks-away","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/sport/20260930-ronaldo-leaves-portugal-training-camp-after-coach-drops-him-from-upcoming-match","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6c7598dda530","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:14:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"(Asiad) Kim Jong-ho wins men's individual gold in compound archery","headline":"South Korean Kim Jong-ho won men's individual compound archery gold at the Asiad in Okazaki, Japan, on Oct. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- Kim Jong-ho struck gold in the men's individu...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001008100315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001008000315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001006751320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9783b02e2498","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:14:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KINSHASA","what":"Reddition volontaire des FDLR : Kinshasa réaffirme son engagement dans la mise en œuvre des accords de Washington","headline":"Voluntary surrender of FDLR: Kinshasa reaffirms commitment to implementing Washington agreements","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Le Gouvernement de la RDC réaffirme à Luanda et Lomé sa détermination à appliquer le plan de désarmement des FDLR.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Le Gouvernement de la RDC réaffirme à Luanda et Lomé sa détermination à appliquer le plan de désarmement des FDLR. Il dit maintenir ses engagements diplomatiques et sécuritaires pour la pacification de l’Est du pays.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Government of the DRC reaffirms in Luanda and Lomé its determination to apply the plan for disarming the FDLR. It says it is maintaining its diplomatic and security commitments for the pacification of the east of the country.","context_en":"The Government of the DRC reaffirms in Luanda and Lomé its determination to apply the plan for disarming the FDLR. It says it is maintaining its diplomatic and security commitments for the pacification of the east of the country.","lang":"fr","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000073","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/securite/reddition-volontaire-des-fdlr-kinshasa-reaffirme-son-engagement-dans","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"62ddf34818f2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KOBE","what":"Shootings in Kobe leave one dead and one injured","headline":"Police in Japan arrested a former yakuza member in Kobe after two shootings left one person dead and one injured","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Hyogo Prefectural Police have arrested a former yakuza member for one of the shootings and are investigating his possible involvement in the other.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Hyogo Prefectural Police have arrested a former yakuza member for one of the shootings and are investigating his possible involvement in the other.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/10/01/japan/crime-legal/kobe-shootings/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86ecc74291a3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:09:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEL AVIV","what":"Netanyahu: te vroeg voor conclusie dat Iran bij aanval in vliegtuig betrokken was","headline":"Netanyahu: too early to conclude Iran was involved in plane attack","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Israëlische premier Netanyahu vindt het nog te vroeg om te concluderen dat Iran betrokken was bij de gewelddadige aanval in het vliegtuig van Flydubai dat gisteren van Dubai naar Tel Aviv vloog.","quote":"Maar het is geen geheim dat Iran Israëliërs in het buitenland wil aanvallen.","quote_en":"But it is no secret that Iran wants to attack Israelis abroad.","context":"De Israëlische premier Netanyahu vindt het nog te vroeg om te concluderen dat Iran betrokken was bij de gewelddadige aanval in het vliegtuig van Flydubai dat gisteren van Dubai naar Tel Aviv vloog. Dat zei hij gisteravond in een interview bij de Amerikaanse nieuwszender Fox News. Hij voegde daar wel aan toe: \"Maar het is geen geheim dat Iran Israëliërs in het buitenland wil aanvallen.\" Volgens Netanyahu wordt onderzocht of er banden zijn tussen Iran en de copiloot uit Oman die de gezagvoerder in de cockpit aanviel en waarschijnlijk als doel had het vliegtuig te laten crashen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu believes it is still too early to conclude that Iran was involved in the violent attack on the Flydubai plane that flew from Dubai to Tel Aviv yesterday. That is what he said last night in an interview with the American news channel Fox News.","context_en":"Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu believes it is still too early to conclude that Iran was involved in the violent attack on the Flydubai plane that flew from Dubai to Tel Aviv yesterday. That is what he said last night in an interview with the American news channel Fox News.","lang":"nl","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":6,"top":true,"topSim":0.584},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633227","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cbfb4fe7ddfd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:04:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALYTUS","what":"Lithuanian refrigerator maker Snaigė files for bankruptcy","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Snaigė, the only refrigerator manufacturer in the Baltic states, is seeking bankruptcy after abandoning its restructuring process amid unfavourable market conditions, uncertain prospects for continuing operations and…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Snaigė, the only refrigerator manufacturer in the Baltic states, is seeking bankruptcy after abandoning its restructuring process amid unfavourable market conditions, uncertain prospects for continuing operations and persistent losses.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3069047/lithuanian-refrigerator-maker-snaige-files-for-bankruptcy","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c28fb29049c3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:02:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"N. Korea's Kim urges top university to lead building of 'powerful' country","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has visited Kim Il Sun...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007500315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2a0ddb49172c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T06:01:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Singapore Airlines cancels flights to and from Dubai until Dec 1","headline":"Singapore Airlines canceled flights to and from Dubai until Dec 1, while Scoot canceled flights to and from Jeddah until Dec 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Scoot separately announced flight cancellations to and from Jeddah until Dec 2.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Scoot separately announced flight cancellations to and from Jeddah until Dec 2.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/sia-flight-cancel-dubai-scoot-jeddah-6423611","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"35a06a38c161","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:57:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORD-KIVU","what":"Une présumée intoxication à la viande de singe fait quatre morts à Walikale","headline":"Suspected monkey meat poisoning kills four in Walikale","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Quatre personnes sont décédées à la suite d’une présumée intoxication alimentaire dans le territoire de Walikale, au Nord-Kivu.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Quatre personnes sont décédées à la suite d’une présumée intoxication alimentaire dans le territoire de Walikale, au Nord-Kivu. Le drame s’est produit à Munsanga, une localité située dans la zone de santé de Pinga, où plusieurs habitants sont tombés malades après avoir consommé de la viande de singe.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Four people have died following suspected food poisoning in Walikale territory, North Kivu. The incident occurred in Munsanga, in the Pinga health zone, where several residents fell ill after eating monkey meat.","context_en":"Four people have died following suspected food poisoning in Walikale territory, North Kivu. The incident occurred in Munsanga, in the Pinga health zone, where several residents fell ill after eating monkey meat.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/societe/une-presumee-intoxication-la-viande-de-singe-fait-quatre-morts-walikale","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"945a030ac436","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:54:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Canadian delegation tours S. Korean Air Force's air defense facilities: sources","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- A delegation of Canadian defense ministry officials ha...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001003200315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"efc66f706ab3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:53:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Gender equality minister says presidential office asked her to 'steady' ministry","headline":"South Korea's gender equality minister said the presidential office asked her to steady the ministry on Oct. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- Gender Equality Minister Won Min-kyong said Thursday t...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007300315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0aa5cb1d11e3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:53:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PHILIPPINES","what":"Philippines sends largest ship, aircraft to drive away Chinese vessel in waters near Taiwan","headline":"Philippines sent its largest ship and an aircraft to drive a Chinese vessel away in waters near Taiwan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Philippine Coast Guard said the 97m-ship and an aircraft were deployed against the Chinese vessel.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Philippine Coast Guard said the 97m-ship and an aircraft were deployed against the Chinese vessel.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/philippines-sends-largest-ship-aircraft-to-drive-away-chinese-vessel-in-waters-near-taiwan","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"85764d45a621","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:51:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GLEN INNES","what":"Homicide investigation launched after man dies in Glen Innes incident","headline":"Police launched a homicide investigation after a man died in an incident on Sunnymead Road in Glen Innes, New Zealand at 2.47pm on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"St John says it was notified of an incident on Sunnymead Road, Glen Innes at 2.47pm on Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"St John says it was notified of an incident on Sunnymead Road, Glen Innes at 2.47pm on Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1672438/homicide-investigation-launched-after-man-dies-in-glen-innes-incident","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1667564/dunedin-police-probe-unexplained-death","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4235ae8fa423","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:49:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Australia's Suncorp denies takeover talks with Tokio Marine; shares fall","headline":"Australia's Suncorp denied takeover talks with Tokio Marine and its shares fell on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Australia's Suncorp denies takeover talks with Tokio Marine; shares fall","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/australias-suncorp-denies-takeover-talks-tokio-marine-shares-fall-6423651","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c6e0ab5dd4b1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:47:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH KOREA","what":"(URGENT) Cheong Wa Dae says will seek confirmation hearing for embattled nominee for head of new investigation bureau","headline":"South Korea's presidential office will seek a confirmation hearing for the nominee to lead the new investigation bureau","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"(END)","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"(END)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007400315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a17b8340956f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:46:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DAEJEON","what":"473 legal violations found at Hanwha Aerospace's Daejeon plant","headline":"Labor ministry found 473 legal violations at Hanwha Aerospace plant in Daejeon South Korea","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- The labor ministry said Thursday it has uncovered a to...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001007100315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a2ff4e1de71d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:44:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"World War I medals of Far North soldier uncovered in Christchurch","headline":"Police found World War I medals of Far North soldier Private Victor Powell at a Christchurch property in New Zealand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Police are hoping to track down the relatives of Private Victor Powell after his medals were found at a Christchurch property.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Police are hoping to track down the relatives of Private Victor Powell after his medals were found at a Christchurch property.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1673512/world-war-i-medals-of-far-north-soldier-uncovered-in-christchurch","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"474bc41fd186","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:44:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Eni, completato riassetto Plenitude con aumento capitale da 1,56 miliardi","headline":"Eni completes Plenitude restructuring with 1.56 billion capital increase","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Sottoscritto da Ares per 1,08 miliardi e da Eni per 0,48","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Sottoscritto da Ares per 1,08 miliardi e da Eni per 0,48","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Subscribed by Ares for 1.08 billion and by Eni for 0.48 billion.","context_en":"Subscribed by Ares for 1.08 billion and by Eni for 0.48 billion.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/10/01/eni-completato-riassetto-plenitude-con-aumento-capitale-da-156-miliardi_caff4125-b0bf-4387-a636-5a52971abf12.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"77f855fde310","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:41:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ODESA","what":"Russian forces strike business center in Odesa, one person injured","headline":"Russian forces struck a business center in Odesa, Ukraine, and injured one person","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russian forces have struck a business center in Odesa, leaving one person injured.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russian forces have struck a business center in Odesa, leaving one person injured.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Russian forces have struck cities across Ukraine with missiles and drones since the full-scale invasion began in February 2022. Odesa, a major Black Sea port in southern Ukraine, has come under repeated attack because it handles much of the country’s grain exports and sits within range of Russian naval and air assets in occupied Crimea.\n\nOn October 1 2026, a Russian strike hit a business center in Odesa. Oleh Kiper, head of the Odesa Regional Military Administration, said the attack damaged roofs and facades of two buildings, blew out windows, and partly destroyed walls on the fifth floor. One person was injured.\n\nThe regional administration has not said what type of weapon struck the site or whether any military targets were nearby. Rescue crews cleared debris and boarded up broken windows while officials assessed structural damage to the buildings.","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055888/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169848-russian-forces-strike-business-center-in-odesa-one-person-injured.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fdba7a061238","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:37:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PESHAWAR","what":"Only three out of 1,024 candidates pass KP civil judges examination","headline":"Three out of 1,024 candidates passed the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa civil judges exam in Pakistan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PESHAWAR: Only three out of 1,024 candidates have passed the written examination conducted by the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Public Service Commission to fill 105 vacant positions of civil judge-cum-judicial magistrate and Al…","quote":"In response to the advertisement, a total of 3,097 applications were received by the commission. All the candidates were provisionally admitted to the syllabus based written examination wherein 1024 candidates appeared in the examination,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PESHAWAR: Only three out of 1,024 candidates have passed the written examination conducted by the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Public Service Commission to fill 105 vacant positions of civil judge-cum-judicial magistrate and Alaqa Qazi. The exam results were announced by the PCS on Wednesday, showing poor performance of the candidates. The BPS-18 vacant positions were advertised by the Peshawar High Court in April 2026. “In response to the advertisement, a total of 3,097 applications were received by the commission.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033820/only-three-out-of-1024-candidates-pass-kp-civil-judges-examination","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d638573a7603","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:35:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Long Island dad killed in ‘targeted attack’ at park — sparking hospital brawl that forces lockdown","headline":"A father of two died in a targeted shooting at a Suffolk County park on Long Island","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Long Island father of two was fatally shot at a Suffolk County park and rushed to a nearby hospital — where a brawl broke out among people who followed him there, forcing the hospital into lockdown.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Long Island father of two was fatally shot at a Suffolk County park and rushed to a nearby hospital — where a brawl broke out among people who followed him there, forcing the hospital into lockdown.","summary":"A Long Island father of two was shot dead at a Suffolk County park. People who followed the victim to the hospital started a brawl there that led staff to lock down the building. Police called the park attack targeted but named no suspect.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/long-island-dad-lonnie-booker-shot-dead-at-bellport-park/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cd0f2d3f1ec7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:34:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PESHAWAR","what":"Inflation hits Peshawar households hard, says Institute of Regional Studies survey","headline":"Rising inflation pushed most low-income families in Peshawar, Pakistan, into debt, an Institute of Regional Studies survey found","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PESHAWAR: Rising inflation has pushed a large majority of low-income households in Peshawar into debt, with 89pc of families borrowing money to meet their daily expenses, says a survey conducted by the Institute of Re…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PESHAWAR: Rising inflation has pushed a large majority of low-income households in Peshawar into debt, with 89pc of families borrowing money to meet their daily expenses, says a survey conducted by the Institute of Regional Studies (IRS). The survey also found that 95.1pc of households were finding it difficult to repay their loans amid rising living costs. IRS chairman Dr Mohammad Iqbal Khalil released the survey report at a press conference at Peshawar Press Club on Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033813/inflation-hits-peshawar-households-hard-says-institute-of-regional-studies-survey","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4ed4d8a7c6e9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:31:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Tankan shows rising sentiment at big manufacturers for sixth straight quarter","headline":"Big manufacturers in Japan grew more optimistic for the sixth straight quarter in the latest Tankan survey, the highest level in eight years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"They have not been this optimistic about business conditions in eight years.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"They have not been this optimistic about business conditions in eight years.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/business/2026/10/01/companies/tankan-better-sentiment/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f00404e8c9e4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:30:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Canada : la prolongation des restrictions liées à Ebola maintient des Congolais dans l’incertitude","headline":"Canada: extension of Ebola-related restrictions keeps Congolese in uncertainty","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La décision du gouvernement canadien de prolonger jusqu’au 27 novembre 2026 les mesures exceptionnelles prévues par le décret visant à réduire le risque d’exposition à la maladie Ebola continue d’entraîner des répercu…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La décision du gouvernement canadien de prolonger jusqu’au 27 novembre 2026 les mesures exceptionnelles prévues par le décret visant à réduire le risque d’exposition à la maladie Ebola continue d’entraîner des répercussions sur de nombreux ressortissants congolais.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Canadian government's decision to extend until 27 November 2026 the exceptional measures provided for by the decree aimed at reducing the risk of exposure to Ebola continues to have repercussions on numerous Congolese nationals.","context_en":"The Canadian government's decision to extend until 27 November 2026 the exceptional measures provided for by the decree aimed at reducing the risk of exposure to Ebola continues to have repercussions on numerous Congolese nationals.","lang":"fr","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/sante/canada-la-prolongation-des-restrictions-liees-ebola-maintient-des","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"30de2ca32445","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:29:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"Capital Development Authority suspends range officer over alleged failure to report illegal construction","headline":"Pakistan's Capital Development Authority suspended a Bhara Kahu range officer in Islamabad on Wednesday for failing to report illegal construction","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: The Capital Development Authority (CDA) on Wednesday said action against illegal encroachments across Islamabad was continuing, as its environment wing suspended another official for “inefficiency and misco…","quote":"inefficiency and misconduct","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: The Capital Development Authority (CDA) on Wednesday said action against illegal encroachments across Islamabad was continuing, as its environment wing suspended another official for “inefficiency and misconduct”. The environment wing, which has already taken action against three officials in recent days, suspended a range officer of the Bhara Kahu zone over allegations that he failed to report unauthorised construction in his area. “Yes, we have suspended the Range Officer of the Bhara Kahu area.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033800/capital-development-authority-suspends-range-officer-over-alleged-failure-to-report-illegal-construction","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0deee8b96890","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:26:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(LEAD) Presidential aide on economic growth named new presidential policy chief","headline":"Presidential aide Ha Joon-kyu took over as South Korea's new presidential policy chief in Seoul on Oct. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Oct. 1 (Yonhap) -- Chief presidential aide on economic growth Ha Joon-kyu...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20261001006651315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a4e11a59cd32","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:26:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GUJRAT","what":"Suspect repatriated from Azerbaijan 15 years after murder in Gujrat","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"GUJRAT: Police claimed to have repatriated from Azerbaijan through Interpol a suspect wanted in a murder case 15 years ago.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"GUJRAT: Police claimed to have repatriated from Azerbaijan through Interpol a suspect wanted in a murder case 15 years ago. Reports said suspect Sher Afghan of Laal Warri village had shot dead a man in 2011 and later fled the country. An official of Gujrat police said DPO Faisal Shahzad had tasked Saddar Gujrat Station House Officer Sub Inspector Raja Shehroz to get the suspect repatriated from abroad upon which the process was initiated. The suspect is now in the custody of Gujrat police.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033893/suspect-repatriated-from-azerbaijan-15-years-after-murder-in-gujrat","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"607a27d32e2f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:24:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"K-pop star convicted of violating military service law","headline":"K-pop band Winner member received a suspended prison sentence for repeated absences from military service in South Korea","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The member of K-pop band Winner was given a suspended prison sentence for repeated absences from his national service work.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The member of K-pop band Winner was given a suspended prison sentence for repeated absences from his national service work.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cjn5d52d3lk5o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"80ab2d25a3d7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:19:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KUALA LUMPUR","what":"Malaysia Aviation Group signs deal to buy Airbus unit Sepang Aircraft Engineering","headline":"Malaysia Aviation Group signed a deal to buy the Airbus unit Sepang Aircraft Engineering in Kuala Lumpur on October 1 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Malaysia Aviation Group signs deal to buy Airbus unit Sepang Aircraft Engineering","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/malaysia-aviation-group-signs-deal-buy-airbus-unit-sepang-aircraft-engineering-6423581","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4ad8d5edef1b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:18:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Woman in conspiracy to cheat victims lured from dating apps to rigged mahjong games gets jail","headline":"A woman in Singapore got jail for luring dating app users into rigged mahjong games that cheated them","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The victim would be invited to a game where the other three players had been trained in mahjong and worked in concert to make him lose.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The victim would be invited to a game where the other three players had been trained in mahjong and worked in concert to make him lose.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/woman-conspiracy-cheat-mahjong-games-rigged-jail-6423461","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1e4dd92b4981","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:17:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"Georgia college student posed as high school runner, attacked ‘acquaintance’ with rocks during race","headline":"A University of Georgia student posed as a high school runner and attacked an acquaintance with rocks during a race in Georgia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A University of Georgia student allegedly impersonated a high school cross-country runner and attacked the athlete with rocks during a stealthy mid-race ambush.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A University of Georgia student allegedly impersonated a high school cross-country runner and attacked the athlete with rocks during a stealthy mid-race ambush.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/georgia-college-student-aiden-dombrowski-posed-as-high-school-runner-attacked-athlete-during-race/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d4808bac6f3e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:13:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MURREE","what":"Student who risked life to save other children in Murree school van fire succumbs to burn injuries","headline":"A student died of burns after he tried to save other children from a school van fire in Murree, Pakistan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033806","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033806","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033942/student-who-risked-life-to-save-other-children-in-murree-school-van-fire-succumbs-to-burn-injuries","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d43e32fd1d2a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:07:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Artículo 19 rechaza aprobación de \"Ley Antimemes\"; advierte riesgos para periodistas y contenidos críticos","headline":"Article 19 rejects approval of 'Anti-Memes Law'; warns of risks to journalists and critical content","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La organización sostuvo que el uso del derecho penal en asuntos relacionados con la libertad de expresión genera un efecto “disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor”","quote":"disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor","quote_en":"disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor","context":"La organización sostuvo que el uso del derecho penal en asuntos relacionados con la libertad de expresión genera un efecto “disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor”","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The organization stated that the use of criminal law in matters related to freedom of expression generates a 'disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor' effect.","context_en":"The organization stated that the use of criminal law in matters related to freedom of expression generates a 'disuasivo, atemorizador e inhibidor' effect.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/articulo-19-rechaza-aprobacion-de-ley-antimemes-advierte-riesgos-para-periodistas-y-contenidos-criticos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b686d9a18a49","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:02:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Ex-cricketer Pathirage wins Sri Lanka's 1st Asian Games gold in javelin","headline":"Former cricketer Rumesh Tharanga Pathirage won Sri Lanka's first Asian Games gold in the javelin in Aichi, Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Former cricketer Rumesh Tharanga Pathirage delivered Sri Lanka's first gold medal of the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games by winning t Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Former cricketer Rumesh Tharanga Pathirage delivered Sri Lanka's first gold medal of the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games by winning t Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86894","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"df9885b26e6a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T05:01:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TENNESSEE","what":"Första kvinnan på över 200 år skulle avrättas i USA – misslyckades","headline":"First woman in over 200 years to be executed in US – attempt failed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Den uppmärksammade avrättningen av Christa Pike i delstaten Tennessee har misslyckats.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Den uppmärksammade avrättningen av Christa Pike i delstaten Tennessee har misslyckats. Den dödsdömda kvinnan andades fortfarande och snarkade ljudligt efter att ha fått två doser av preparatet pentobarbital som skulle ha tagit livet av henne, uppger vittnen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The high-profile execution of Christa Pike in Tennessee failed. The condemned woman was still breathing and snoring loudly after receiving two doses of the drug pentobarbital that was supposed to kill her, witnesses say.","context_en":"The high-profile execution of Christa Pike in Tennessee failed. The condemned woman was still breathing and snoring loudly after receiving two doses of the drug pentobarbital that was supposed to kill her, witnesses say.","lang":"sv","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/utrikes/avrattning-i-usa-misslyckades","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910253","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/court-halts-tennessees-execution-of-first-woman-in-200-years/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1bb2adc6d39d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:59:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Congreso: Comisión de Educación aprueba derogar la ley que crea el Colegio de Artistas","headline":"Congress: Education Committee approves repeal of law creating College of Artists","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Por unanimidad, con 20 votos a favor, la Comisión de Educación, Cultura y Deporte de la Cámara de Diputados, presidida por el diputado Segundo Castrejón Fernández, aprobó el dictamen que proponen derogar la Ley N.° 32…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Por unanimidad, con 20 votos a favor, la Comisión de Educación, Cultura y Deporte de la Cámara de Diputados, presidida por el diputado Segundo Castrejón Fernández, aprobó el dictamen que proponen derogar la Ley N.° 32645, que crea el Colegio Profesional de Artistas del Perú (CPAP).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"By unanimous vote with 20 votes in favor, the Education, Culture and Sport Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, chaired by Deputy Segundo Castrejón Fernández, approved the opinion proposing to repeal Law No. 32645, which creates the Professional College of Artists of Peru (CPAP).","context_en":"By unanimous vote with 20 votes in favor, the Education, Culture and Sport Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, chaired by Deputy Segundo Castrejón Fernández, approved the opinion proposing to repeal Law No. 32645, which creates the Professional College of Artists of Peru (CPAP).","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-congreso-comision-educacion-aprueba-derogar-ley-crea-colegio-artistas-1094103.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5967142c3f61","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:56:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"Man indicted for running unregistered office for Chinese chip firm","headline":"Prosecutors in Taipei Taiwan indicted a man on Oct 1 for running an unregistered office for a Chinese chip firm and sought an 18-month prison sentence","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) Prosecutors in Taipei on Thursday indicted a man for allegedly operating an unregistered office for a Chinese semiconductor firm, seeking an 18-month prison sentence.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202610010006","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"18055ede546f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:54:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Gobierno de México niega patrón estatal de desaparición forzada de buscadoras; aclara que opiniones de expertos no representan a la ONU","headline":"Mexican government denies pattern of state forced disappearances of searchers; clarifies experts' opinions do not","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Segob y la SRE señalaron que los expertos de los Procedimientos Especiales actúan a título personal y de manera independiente","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Segob y la SRE señalaron que los expertos de los Procedimientos Especiales actúan a título personal y de manera independiente","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Interior Ministry (Segob) and the Foreign Ministry (SRE) stated that the experts of the Special Procedures act in a personal capacity and independently.","context_en":"The Interior Ministry (Segob) and the Foreign Ministry (SRE) stated that the experts of the Special Procedures act in a personal capacity and independently.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/gobierno-de-mexico-niega-patron-estatal-de-desaparicion-forzada-de-buscadoras-aclara-que-opiniones-de-expertos-no-representan-a-la-onu/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"700e6cf05e3d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:54:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Housemate saw surfboard bags under tarp, murder trial told","headline":"Housemate saw surfboard bags under a tarp and thought red liquid was rusted water, murder trial told in Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Beau Lamarre-Condon's double murder trial hears from the housemate of Jesse Baird, who told the jury she thought red liquid underneath two surfboard bags was rusted water.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Beau Lamarre-Condon's double murder trial hears from the housemate of Jesse Baird, who told the jury she thought red liquid underneath two surfboard bags was rusted water.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/beau-lamarre-condon-jesse-baird-housemate-red-liquid/107215466","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2a6976eb02e3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:48:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDIANA","what":"Indiana governor extends gas tax suspension","headline":"Indiana governor Mike Braun extended the state gas tax suspension as fuel prices rose due to the war in Iran","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Indiana Gov.","quote":"Today I announced another gas tax extension with additional relief for farmers,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indiana Gov. Mike Braun (R) said Wednesday he is extending his state’s gas tax suspension as fuel prices elevate due to the ongoing war in Iran “Today I announced another gas tax extension with additional relief for farmers,” Braun said in a post to social platform X. “Our farmers have the hardest job in America.”…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/6122117-braun-indiana-gas-tax-iran-war/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"085ed7603565","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:46:00.683Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pentagon creates 'Autowarcom' to expand AI and drone capabilities","headline":"The Pentagon set up Autowarcom in Washington on October 1 2026 to expand its AI and drone capabilities","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pentagon creates 'Autowarcom' to expand AI and drone capabilities","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/pentagon-creates-autowarcom-expand-ai-drone-capabilities-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"51ce5b49b84c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:44:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Amnistía Internacional respalda llamado de la ONU para proteger a mujeres buscadoras en México; advierte sobre violencia","headline":"Amnesty International backs UN call to protect women searchers in Mexico; warns of violence","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Amnistía Internacional se sumó al llamado de personas expertas de Naciones Unidas para que el Estado mexicano cumpla con sus obligaciones internacionales de proteger a las mujeres buscadoras , quienes enfrentan violen…","quote":"detrás de cada expediente hay personas","quote_en":"behind every file there are people","context":"Amnistía Internacional se sumó al llamado de personas expertas de Naciones Unidas para que el Estado mexicano cumpla con sus obligaciones internacionales de proteger a las mujeres buscadoras , quienes enfrentan violencias y riesgos que, en algunos casos, derivan en su propia desaparición o asesinato . En un comunicado, recordó que en su informe Desaparecer otra vez documentó distintas formas de violencia contra mujeres que buscan a personas desaparecidas, entre ellas desplazamiento forzado , estigmatización y revictimización.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Amnesty International joined a call by United Nations experts for the Mexican state to fulfill its international obligations to protect women searchers, who face violence and risks that in some cases result in their own disappearance or murder.","context_en":"Amnesty International joined a call by United Nations experts for the Mexican state to fulfill its international obligations to protect women searchers, who face violence and risks that in some cases result in their own disappearance or murder.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/amnistia-internacional-respalda-llamado-de-la-onu-para-proteger-a-mujeres-buscadoras-en-mexico-advierte-sobre-violencia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0a2ab82901ea","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:43:57.489Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BURUNDI","what":"Burundi to take third-country deportees from US","headline":"Burundi agreed to accept third-country deportees from the US, October 1, 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Burundi to take third-country deportees from US","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/media-telecom/burundi-take-third-country-deportees-us-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9f3c5086f5db","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:43:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"New Zealand actor Cliff Curtis injured in crash in Auckland last week","headline":"New Zealand actor Cliff Curtis suffered internal injuries in a crash in Auckland last week","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Curtis says he suffered internal injuries.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Curtis says he suffered internal injuries.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1673166/new-zealand-actor-cliff-curtis-injured-in-crash-in-auckland-last-week","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8298ba78be71","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:40:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Artsen Radboudumc ontwikkelen operatie om clitoris te herstellen na vulvakanker","headline":"Doctors at Radboudumc develop surgery to restore clitoris after vulvar cancer","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Het is artsen van het Radboudumc gelukt om clitorissen zodanig te reconstrueren dat die weer helemaal functioneren en orgasmes kunnen geven.","quote":"In het begin is de clitoris soms wat overgevoelig of juist minder gevoelig, maar na een jaar is het herstel optimaal. We zien dat bij de meeste vrouwen het gevoel weer teruggaat naar de situatie van voor de operatie","quote_en":"In the beginning the clitoris is sometimes a bit oversensitive or less sensitive, but after a year the recovery is optimal. We see that in most women the sensation returns to the situation before the operation.","context":"Het is artsen van het Radboudumc gelukt om clitorissen zodanig te reconstrueren dat die weer helemaal functioneren en orgasmes kunnen geven. Dat blijkt na een eerste studie waarbij vrouwen werden geholpen nadat een deel van hun clitoris verloren was gegaan als gevolg van vulvakanker. Van de eerste 23 vrouwen met vulvakanker die zijn geopereerd met herstel van de clitoris, kon negentig procent na de operatie weer een clitoraal orgasme krijgen. Dat gebeurde drie tot zes maanden na de operatie.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Doctors at Radboudumc have succeeded in reconstructing clitorises so that they function fully and can produce orgasms. This is shown by an initial study in which women were helped after losing part of their clitoris due to vulvar cancer. Of the first 23 women with vulvar cancer who underwent surgery with clitoris restoration, 90 percent were able to have a clitoral orgasm after the operation.","context_en":"Doctors at Radboudumc have succeeded in reconstructing clitorises so that they function fully and can produce orgasms. This is shown by an initial study in which women were helped after losing part of their clitoris due to vulvar cancer. Of the first 23 women with vulvar cancer who underwent surgery with clitoris restoration, 90 percent were able to have a clitoral orgasm after the operation.","lang":"nl","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633220","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fd0612356a3e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:38:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Tribunal Constitucional anuló investigación contra Lourdes Flores por aportes de Odebrecht y Camargo y Correa para campaña presidencial de 2006","headline":"Constitutional Court annuls investigation against Lourdes Flores over Odebrecht and Camargo y Correa contributions to","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Tribunal Constitucional adoptó esta medida al declarar “fundada” una demanda de amparo que presentó Lourdes Flores Nano para que se anule esta investigación preparatoria por una violación de sus derechos fundamenta…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Tribunal Constitucional adoptó esta medida al declarar “fundada” una demanda de amparo que presentó Lourdes Flores Nano para que se anule esta investigación preparatoria por una violación de sus derechos fundamentales a la debida motivación de las decisiones fiscales y a la prueba.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Constitutional Court took this measure by declaring 'founded' an amparo petition filed by Lourdes Flores Nano to annul the preparatory investigation for violation of her fundamental rights to due motivation of prosecutorial decisions and to evidence.","context_en":"The Constitutional Court took this measure by declaring 'founded' an amparo petition filed by Lourdes Flores Nano to annul the preparatory investigation for violation of her fundamental rights to due motivation of prosecutorial decisions and to evidence.","lang":"es","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RPP","url":"https://rpp.pe/politica/judiciales/tribunal-constitucional-anulo-investigacion-contra-lourdes-flores-nano-por-aportes-de-odebrecht-y-camargo-y-correa-para-campana-presidencial-de-2006-noticia-1710224","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7f47e50d9210","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:38:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DJUGU","what":"Les FARDC dénoncent des violations du cessez-le-feu et des attaques contre les civils à Djugu","headline":"FARDC denounce ceasefire violations and attacks on civilians in Djugu","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La situation sécuritaire continue de se détériorer dans le territoire de Djugu, en Ituri.","quote":"graves atteintes à l’intégrité physique des populations civiles","quote_en":"serious violations of the physical integrity of civilian populations","context":"La situation sécuritaire continue de se détériorer dans le territoire de Djugu, en Ituri. Les Forces armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) accusent le mouvement armé CRP/M23, d’être à l’origine de plusieurs violations du cessez-le-feu et d’exactions contre les populations civiles. Dans un communiqué publié mardi 29 septembre à Bunia, le secteur opérationnel des FARDC en Ituri a dénoncé ce qu’il qualifie de « graves atteintes à l’intégrité physique des populations civiles » dans plusieurs localités de Djugu.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The security situation continues to deteriorate in Djugu territory, Ituri. The Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) accuse the armed movement CRP/M23 of being behind several violations of the ceasefire and abuses against civilian populations. In a communiqué published Tuesday 29 September in Bunia, the FARDC operational sector in Ituri denounced what it describes as","context_en":"The security situation continues to deteriorate in Djugu territory, Ituri. The Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) accuse the armed movement CRP/M23 of being behind several violations of the ceasefire and abuses against civilian populations. In a communiqué published Tuesday 29 September in Bunia, the FARDC operational sector in Ituri denounced what it describes as","lang":"fr","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/10/01/actualite/securite/les-fardc-denoncent-des-violations-du-cessez-le-feu-et-des-attaques","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dc2dccdc8029","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:34:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BALTIC SEA","what":"Russia summons Denmark's ambassador after Russian corvette fires flares at Danish helicopter","headline":"Russia summoned Denmark's ambassador after its corvette fired flares at a Danish helicopter in the Baltic Sea on 14 September","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russia has summoned Denmark's ambassador to protest against what it calls \"provocative\" actions by a Danish Fennec helicopter near the Russian corvette Soobrazitelny in the Baltic Sea on 14 September.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russia has summoned Denmark's ambassador to protest against what it calls \"provocative\" actions by a Danish Fennec helicopter near the Russian corvette Soobrazitelny in the Baltic Sea on 14 September.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055905/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3a53470dd68e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:29:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SANTA ANITA","what":"Ministerio de Salud intensifica la vacunación contra la sarampión en niños de Santa Anita","headline":"Health Ministry intensifies measles vaccination in children in Santa Anita","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio de Salud (Minsa), a través de la Dirección de Redes Integradas de Salud (Diris) Lima Este, realizó la intensificación de vacunación casa por casa contra el sarampión en el distrito de Santa Anita, como p…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio de Salud (Minsa), a través de la Dirección de Redes Integradas de Salud (Diris) Lima Este, realizó la intensificación de vacunación casa por casa contra el sarampión en el distrito de Santa Anita, como parte de las estrategias de prevención y control frente al brote de sarampión que se registra en el país.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Health Ministry (Minsa), through the Integrated Health Networks Directorate (Diris) Lima East, carried out door-to-door intensification of measles vaccination in the Santa Anita district as part of prevention and control strategies in response to the measles outbreak recorded in the country.","context_en":"The Health Ministry (Minsa), through the Integrated Health Networks Directorate (Diris) Lima East, carried out door-to-door intensification of measles vaccination in the Santa Anita district as part of prevention and control strategies in response to the measles outbreak recorded in the country.","lang":"es","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ministerio-salud-intensifica-vacunacion-contra-sarampion-ninos-santa-anita-1094099.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e8db6f4db0b1","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:27:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Zelfstandigenwet moet zzp'ers en opdrachtgevers duidelijkheid geven","headline":"New self-employed law must give clarity to zzp'ers and clients","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Na jarenlange discussie over schijnzelfstandigheid moet een nieuwe wet een einde maken aan de discussie wanneer iemand zzp'er is en wanneer niet.","quote":"Dit moet duidelijkheid geven voor ondernemers en opdrachtgevers","quote_en":"This must give clarity for entrepreneurs and clients","context":"Na jarenlange discussie over schijnzelfstandigheid moet een nieuwe wet een einde maken aan de discussie wanneer iemand zzp'er is en wanneer niet. \"Dit moet duidelijkheid geven voor ondernemers en opdrachtgevers\", zegt minister Aartsen van Werk en Participatie. Opdrachtgevers die met schijnzelfstandigen werken lopen het risico naheffingen van de Belastingdienst te krijgen voor belasting en sociale premies. Door de onduidelijke regels stopte een deel van de opdrachtgevers daarom met het inhuren van zzp'ers.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"After years of discussion about sham self-employment, a new law must put an end to the debate over when someone is a zzp'er and when not.","context_en":"After years of discussion about sham self-employment, a new law must put an end to the debate over when someone is a zzp'er and when not.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633216","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fb887e4da987","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:27:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Helicopter crashes off Catalina Island with 5 people aboard","headline":"A helicopter with five people on board crashed into the ocean off Catalina Island in California on Wednesday night","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A helicopter crashed into the ocean off Catalina Island Wednesday night just seconds after departing.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A helicopter crashed into the ocean off Catalina Island Wednesday night just seconds after departing.","summary":"A helicopter crashed into the ocean off Catalina Island just seconds after it took off on Wednesday night. Two people died. Two others were hurt. One person is still missing. The four who reached shore were taken to a hospital.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"A helicopter lifted off from a pad on Catalina Island off the coast of California on a Wednesday night flight. The aircraft had just cleared the ground when it went into the water seconds later.\n\nThe crash happened at 7:27 p.m. local time on October 1. Five people were aboard the helicopter at the time it hit the ocean.\n\nRescue crews reached the site and recovered all five people from the water. Their conditions were not immediately known and the cause of the crash remained under investigation by federal aviation authorities.","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/air-ambulence-helicopter-crashes-off-catalina-island-with-5-people-aboard/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/helicopter-crashes-off-catalina-island-coast-rescue-efforts-underway/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/1-missing-4-rushed-hospital-helicopter-crashes-southern-california-island","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1950bf48dc4d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:25:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Aprueban norma técnica para laboratorios de control de calidad del cacao peruano","headline":"Peru approves technical standard for laboratories testing quality of Peruvian cacao","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En el marco del Día Nacional del Cacao y Chocolate Peruano, el Instituto Nacional de Calidad (Inacal), organismo adscrito al Ministerio de la Producción, aprobó la norma técnica para laboratorios de control de la cali…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"En el marco del Día Nacional del Cacao y Chocolate Peruano, el Instituto Nacional de Calidad (Inacal), organismo adscrito al Ministerio de la Producción, aprobó la norma técnica para laboratorios de control de la calidad del cacao peruano.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"On the occasion of National Cacao and Peruvian Chocolate Day, the National Institute for Quality (Inacal), an agency under the Ministry of Production, approved the technical standard for laboratories that control the quality of Peruvian cacao.","context_en":"On the occasion of National Cacao and Peruvian Chocolate Day, the National Institute for Quality (Inacal), an agency under the Ministry of Production, approved the technical standard for laboratories that control the quality of Peruvian cacao.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-aprueban-norma-tecnica-para-laboratorios-control-calidad-del-cacao-peruano-1094096.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c115bee8f98e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:25:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JULIACA","what":"Puno: Fuertes vientos destruyen infraestructura prefabricada del colegio Santa Rosa en Juliaca","headline":"Puno: Strong winds destroy prefabricated infrastructure at Santa Rosa school in Juliaca","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Fuerte viento registrado al mediodía de este miércoles causó pánico y severos destrozos en la institución educativa Santa Rosa de Lima, ubicada en la ciudad de Juliaca.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Fuerte viento registrado al mediodía de este miércoles causó pánico y severos destrozos en la institución educativa Santa Rosa de Lima, ubicada en la ciudad de Juliaca. Las ráfagas derribaron y colapsaron múltiples estructuras prefabricadas del plantel, dejando como saldo preliminar dos personas con lesiones leves.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Strong wind registered at midday this Wednesday caused panic and severe damage at the Santa Rosa de Lima educational institution, located in the city of Juliaca. The gusts knocked down and collapsed multiple prefabricated structures at the school, leaving a preliminary toll of two people with minor injuries.","context_en":"Strong wind registered at midday this Wednesday caused panic and severe damage at the Santa Rosa de Lima educational institution, located in the city of Juliaca. The gusts knocked down and collapsed multiple prefabricated structures at the school, leaving a preliminary toll of two people with minor injuries.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/edicion/puno/puno-fuertes-vientos-destruyen-infraestructura-prefabricada-del-colegio-santa-rosa-en-juliaca-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7cbb7854f96c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:23:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BNEI BRAK","what":"At least 24 injured in Bnei Brak nursing home fire, two in serious, unstable condition","headline":"Fire at a Bnei Brak nursing home in Israel injured 24 people, two of them seriously","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In addition to the two severely injured, four individuals between 50 and 80 sustained moderate injuries, and 18 sustained minor injuries.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In addition to the two severely injured, four individuals between 50 and 80 sustained moderate injuries, and 18 sustained minor injuries.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910246","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ynetnews","url":"https://www.ynetnews.com/article/r1qfd5jczg","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7bda4edf5816","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:21:05.811Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"Indonesia inflation picks up in September, in line with expectations","headline":"Indonesia inflation rose in September as expected","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indonesia inflation picks up in September, in line with expectations","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/indonesia-inflation-picks-up-september-line-with-expectation-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"99a33ffb5228","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:19:46.634Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DUBAI","what":"Indian Oil Corp buys October Iraqi oil at discount of $32/bbl to Dubai, sources say","headline":"Indian Oil Corp bought October Iraqi oil at a $32-per-barrel discount to Dubai, sources said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indian Oil Corp buys October Iraqi oil at discount of $32/bbl to Dubai, sources say","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/indian-oil-corp-buys-october-iraqi-oil-discount-32bbl-dubai-sources-say-2026-10-01/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8b14a5397a37","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:18:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOYAMA","what":"New sightseeing canyon route in central Japan launched after quake delay","headline":"Toyama officials launched a new sightseeing route through deep tunnels in central Japan on Thursday after a quake delay","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Officials in Toyama Prefecture on Thursday marked the launch of a new sightseeing route taking visitors through tunnels deep in th Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Officials in Toyama Prefecture on Thursday marked the launch of a new sightseeing route taking visitors through tunnels deep in th Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:10000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86884","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"c8ac4b26df1a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:17:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MUNICH","what":"SVT sänder succétävlingen i München: ”Kommer ställa upp med de bästa”","headline":"SVT to broadcast successful competition in Munich: 'We'll field our best'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Fjolåret blev en succé.","quote":"Vi kommer att ställa upp med de bästa","quote_en":"We will field our best","context":"Fjolåret blev en succé. Nu står det klart att SVT sänder rullskidskyttetävlingarna i München 17-18 oktober. – Vi kommer att ställa upp med de bästa, säger förbundskapten Johannes Lukas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Last year was a success. It has now been confirmed that SVT will broadcast the roller-ski biathlon competitions in Munich on 17-18 October.","context_en":"Last year was a success. It has now been confirmed that SVT will broadcast the roller-ski biathlon competitions in Munich on 17-18 October.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/sport/skidskytte/svt-sander-succetavlingen-i-munchen-kommer-stalla-upp-med-de-basta","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cc5ab9274c27","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:13:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FINLAND","what":"Försvarsmakten i unik operation i Finland – ”Håller gränsen”","headline":"Swedish Armed Forces in unique operation in Finland – “Holding the border”","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Uppdraget för sjömännen och officerarna ombord på Visbykorvetten är att ”hålla gränsen”.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Uppdraget för sjömännen och officerarna ombord på Visbykorvetten är att ”hålla gränsen”. Men gränsen som bevakas är Finlands. SVT följde med på en unik operation i Finska viken.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The mission for the sailors and officers aboard the Visby corvette is to “hold the border.” But the border being guarded is Finland’s. SVT followed along on a unique operation in the Gulf of Finland.","context_en":"The mission for the sailors and officers aboard the Visby corvette is to “hold the border.” But the border being guarded is Finland’s. SVT followed along on a unique operation in the Gulf of Finland.","lang":"sv","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/inrikes/forsvarsmakten-i-unik-operation-i-finland-haller-gransen","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"849703930870","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:12:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW ZEALAND","what":"Nearly $4 million announced towards collecting forestry waste to be turned into biofuel","headline":"New Zealand gave nearly 4 million dollars in grants to five companies to collect forestry waste for biofuel","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Five companies across the country will receive grants totalling $3.7 million to go towards setting up collection points for the forestry waste.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Five companies across the country will receive grants totalling $3.7 million to go towards setting up collection points for the forestry waste.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/environment/1672703/nearly-4-million-announced-towards-collecting-forestry-waste-to-be-turned-into-biofuel","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1d45145f8262","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T04:12:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRISBANE","what":"Chris Fagan steps down from Brisbane Lions","headline":"Chris Fagan stepped down from Brisbane Lions in Australia days after their third-straight grand final win","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"AFL premiership-winning coach Chris Fagan has stepped down from the club days after securing a third-straight grand final victory.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"AFL premiership-winning coach Chris Fagan has stepped down from the club days after securing a third-straight grand final victory.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/chris-fagan-leaves-brisbane-lions/107216896","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"480ca57934cf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:58:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Arizona sheriff's helicopter crew rescues man stranded atop overturned truck in rapidly rising floodwaters","headline":"Maricopa County sheriff helicopter crew hoists man from overturned truck in Arizona floodwaters","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Video captures a Maricopa County sheriff's helicopter crew hoisting a man from his overturned truck as flash flooding surged in Tonopah, Arizona.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Video captures a Maricopa County sheriff's helicopter crew hoisting a man from his overturned truck as flash flooding surged in Tonopah, Arizona.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Flash floods hit parts of Arizona after heavy rain. In Tonopah, a man drove a truck that flipped over in the water. The vehicle lodged in place as the flood rose around it on October 1.\n\nMaricopa County sheriff's helicopter crew reached the site that morning. They lowered a hoist line to the man atop the overturned truck and lifted him clear of the current.\n\nThe crew brought the man to safety on dry ground. The truck remained submerged in the floodwaters.","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/arizona-sheriffs-helicopter-crew-rescues-man-stranded-atop-overturned-truck-rapidly-rising-floodwaters","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fad8bb620ccf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:58:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Senado aprueba adiestramiento de 40 militares en Estados Unidos; buscan fortalecer operaciones conjuntas","headline":"Senate approves training of 40 military personnel in the United States to strengthen joint operations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El dictamen detalla que acudirán a dichas actividades cinco instructores de la Unidad de Fuerzas Especiales","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El dictamen detalla que acudirán a dichas actividades cinco instructores de la Unidad de Fuerzas Especiales","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The ruling details that five instructors from the Special Forces Unit will attend the activities.","context_en":"The ruling details that five instructors from the Special Forces Unit will attend the activities.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/senado-aprueba-adiestramiento-de-40-militares-en-estados-unidos-buscan-fortalecer-operaciones-conjuntas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/entrenan-mas-de-500-militares-con-ejercito-de-eu-fortalecen-capacidad-para-enfrentar-amenazas-compartidas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c5805488c1a3","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:56:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW SOUTH WALES","what":"$$7.55 million settlement awarded to students whose degrees were unaccredited","headline":"University of Newcastle in Australia agreed to pay $7.55 million to settle a class action by 163 students over their unaccredited engineering degrees","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The University of Newcastle has agreed to settle a class action lawsuit for $7.55 million after 163 students alleged it had engaged in misleading conduct after their engineering degree was found to be unaccredited.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The University of Newcastle has agreed to settle a class action lawsuit for $7.55 million after 163 students alleged it had engaged in misleading conduct after their engineering degree was found to be unaccredited.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/university-of-newcastle-class-action-course-accreditation/107208452","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"446bc0c98305","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:53:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH KOREA","what":"South Korea’s Lee urges North Korea to restore dialogue, pledges military build-up","headline":"South Korea's Lee urged North Korea to restore dialogue and pledged to build nuclear-powered submarines by the mid-2030s","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lee also said in his speech that South Korea would build nuclear-powered submarines by the mid-2030s.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lee also said in his speech that South Korea would build nuclear-powered submarines by the mid-2030s.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/south-koreas-lee-urges-north-korea-to-restore-dialogue-pledges-military-buildup","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ea7eef89fef4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:52:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Plummeting Israel flight like 'rollercoaster', says passenger","headline":"A plane bound for Israel dropped 17,000 feet in under two minutes and was diverted, a passenger said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An aeroplane flying to Israel fell 17,000ft (5,200m) in less than two minutes before it was diverted.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An aeroplane flying to Israel fell 17,000ft (5,200m) in less than two minutes before it was diverted.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/cwm2r2v42vdeo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f8e7477f7ff0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:46:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"Warrants out for KP CM over ‘no-show’ in Nov 26 protest case","headline":"An anti-terrorism court in Pakistan re-issued arrest warrants for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Sohail Afridi in a Nov 26 protest case after he skipped a hearing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: An anti-terrorism court (ATC) on Wednesday re-issued ar­­rest warrants for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minis­­ter Sohail Afridi and other individuals in connection with the Nov 26 protest case after they faile…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: An anti-terrorism court (ATC) on Wednesday re-issued ar­­rest warrants for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minis­­ter Sohail Afridi and other individuals in connection with the Nov 26 protest case after they failed to comply with judicial summons. The accused did not appear during Wednes­day’s hearing, prompting Judge Tahir Abbas Sipra to re-issue arrest warrants in connection with a case registered at the Margalla police station. During the hearing, the police also failed to submit the case challan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033880/warrants-out-for-kp-cm-over-no-show-in-nov-26-protest-case","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f55eda1704f0","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:46:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIMA","what":"A días del concierto de BTS, MML programa 3 inspecciones técnicas al Estadio San Marcos","headline":"Days before BTS concert, Lima municipality schedules 3 technical inspections at San Marcos Stadium","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A tan solo unos días del esperado concierto de la banda coreana BTS en nuestro país, Municipalidad Metropolitana de Lima anunció que ha programado realizar una inspección técnica del Estadio de San Marcos los días 7,…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A tan solo unos días del esperado concierto de la banda coreana BTS en nuestro país, Municipalidad Metropolitana de Lima anunció que ha programado realizar una inspección técnica del Estadio de San Marcos los días 7, 9 y 10 de octubre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Just days before the anticipated concert by the Korean band BTS in Peru, the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima announced that it has scheduled a technical inspection of the San Marcos Stadium on October 7, 9 and 10.","context_en":"Just days before the anticipated concert by the Korean band BTS in Peru, the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima announced that it has scheduled a technical inspection of the San Marcos Stadium on October 7, 9 and 10.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-a-dias-del-concierto-bts-mml-programa-3-inspecciones-tecnicas-al-estadio-san-marcos-1094093.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c1b94e61e8e7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:43:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Organizers of Islamic wellness retreat attended by NYC first lady Rama Duwaji called for destruction of Israel in hateful social media posts","headline":"Organizers of an Islamic wellness retreat that New York City first lady Rama Duwaji attended called for the destruction of Israel in social media posts","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Abolish the colonial apartheid state of Israel.","quote":"Abolish the colonial apartheid state of Israel. Free Palestine,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“Abolish the colonial apartheid state of Israel. Free Palestine,” read one of the group's Instagram posts.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/organizers-of-islamic-wellness-retreat-attended-by-nyc-first-lady-rama-duwaji-called-for-destruction-of-israel-in-hateful-social-media-posts/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"955239ca8b2f","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:41:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BENDIGO","what":"Once-celebrated foster carers charged with child sexual abuse offences","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The identity of one of the two men had been suppressed from the public since his arrest.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The identity of one of the two men had been suppressed from the public since his arrest.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/daniel-andrew-grey-foster-carer-charges/107192122","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"65de0749146b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:32:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"‘Maratón de la Titulación’: Cofopri acercará títulos de propiedad a más de 13,000 familias","headline":"‘Maratón de la Titulación’: Cofopri to deliver property titles to more than 13,000 families","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La ‘Maratón de la Titulación’ continuará en octubre con un nuevo despliegue nacional del Organismo de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal (Cofopri) que llevará sus brigadas a 13,338 lotes en 24 regiones del país.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La ‘Maratón de la Titulación’ continuará en octubre con un nuevo despliegue nacional del Organismo de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal (Cofopri) que llevará sus brigadas a 13,338 lotes en 24 regiones del país.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The ‘Maratón de la Titulación’ will continue in October with a new national deployment by the Organismo de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal (Cofopri) that will send its brigades to 13,338 lots in 24 regions of the country.","context_en":"The ‘Maratón de la Titulación’ will continue in October with a new national deployment by the Organismo de Formalización de la Propiedad Informal (Cofopri) that will send its brigades to 13,338 lots in 24 regions of the country.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-maraton-de-titulacion-cofopri-acercara-titulos-propiedad-a-mas-13000-familias-1094091.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"84f15c15eea6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:30:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LINKÖPING","what":"Patienter kräver miljonbelopp av Psykiatrispecialisterna","headline":"Patients demand millions from Psykiatrispecialisterna","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Den privata adhd-kliniken Psykiatrispecialisterna, baserade i Linköping, gick i konkurs tidigare i år.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Den privata adhd-kliniken Psykiatrispecialisterna, baserade i Linköping, gick i konkurs tidigare i år. Det efter att företaget stängdes ner av Ivo. Över hundra patienter kräver nu företaget på pengar, enligt konkursförvaltaren.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The private ADHD clinic Psykiatrispecialisterna, based in Linköping, went into bankruptcy earlier this year after the company was shut down by Ivo. More than a hundred patients are now demanding money from the company, according to the bankruptcy administrator.","context_en":"The private ADHD clinic Psykiatrispecialisterna, based in Linköping, went into bankruptcy earlier this year after the company was shut down by Ivo. More than a hundred patients are now demanding money from the company, according to the bankruptcy administrator.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/ost/patienter-kraver-miljonbelopp-av-psykiatrispecialisterna","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"424da6f40cee","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:30:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UMEÅ","what":"Skärper kontrollen vid Umeå hamn – nu ska det bli svårare att smuggla knark","headline":"Tightens controls at Umeå port – now it will be harder to smuggle drugs","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tullen i Umeå ska bli bättre på att stoppa knarksmuggling med färjan.","quote":"Det ökar möjligheten att hitta det vi kan ha missat","quote_en":"It increases the possibility to find what we may have missed","context":"Tullen i Umeå ska bli bättre på att stoppa knarksmuggling med färjan. Hittills har beslagen av narkotika inte ökat trots utökade kontroller. Nu får de bättre lokaler och utrustning. – Det ökar möjligheten att hitta det vi kan ha missat, säger Oscar Oscarsson, enhetschef på Tullverket Nord.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Customs in Umeå is to become better at stopping drug smuggling via ferry. So far, seizures of narcotics have not increased despite expanded controls. Now they are getting better premises and equipment.","context_en":"Customs in Umeå is to become better at stopping drug smuggling via ferry. So far, seizures of narcotics have not increased despite expanded controls. Now they are getting better premises and equipment.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/skarper-kontrollen-vid-umea-hamn-nu-ska-det-bli-svarare-att-smuggla-knark","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"575987313622","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:30:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ESKILSTUNA","what":"Polisens nya metod – bötfäller föräldrar till barn med snabba elsparkcyklar","headline":"Police new method – fines parents of children with fast e-scooters","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Pappa i Eskilstuna döms till 30 dagsböter efter att ha låtit sin son köra en för snabb elsparkcykel.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pappa i Eskilstuna döms till 30 dagsböter efter att ha låtit sin son köra en för snabb elsparkcykel. Polisen ser fler liknande fall.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A father in Eskilstuna is sentenced to 30 day-fines after letting his son ride an illegally fast e-scooter. Police are seeing more similar cases.","context_en":"A father in Eskilstuna is sentenced to 30 day-fines after letting his son ride an illegally fast e-scooter. Police are seeing more similar cases.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/sormland/polisens-nya-metod-riktar-in-sig-pa-foraldrar-till-barn-med-snabba-elsparkcyklar","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"779f556dcaa7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:30:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KIRUNA","what":"Efter utvisningen – apotekarparet tillbaka i Kiruna","headline":"After deportation, pharmacist couple back in Kiruna","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Migrationsverkets tolkning av en platsannons tvingade Zaib Ansari och hennes familj att resa tillbaka till Pakistan.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Migrationsverkets tolkning av en platsannons tvingade Zaib Ansari och hennes familj att resa tillbaka till Pakistan. Två månader senare kunde hon söka samma jobb igen och är nu tillbaka i Kiruna.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Migration Agency's interpretation of a job advertisement forced Zaib Ansari and her family to travel back to Pakistan. Two months later she was able to apply for the same job again and is now back in Kiruna.","context_en":"The Migration Agency's interpretation of a job advertisement forced Zaib Ansari and her family to travel back to Pakistan. Two months later she was able to apply for the same job again and is now back in Kiruna.","lang":"sv","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/norrbotten/efter-utvisningen-apotekarparet-tillbaka-i-kiruna","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86573ce3cee8","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:29:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Senate confirms Keith Sonderling, a business ally, as labor secretary","headline":"Senate confirmed Keith Sonderling as labor secretary on Wednesday in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The vote came shortly before senators planned to recess late Wednesday to campaign ahead of the Nov.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The vote came shortly before senators planned to recess late Wednesday to campaign ahead of the Nov. 3 midterm elections.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2026/09/30/senate-confirms-keith-sonderling-business-ally-labor-secretary/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/01/us-news/senate-approves-trumps-pick-keith-sonderling-to-lead-the-labor-department/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/6122151-senate-confirms-keith-sonderling-labor-secretary/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/senate-confirms-keith-sonderling-labor-secretary/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f2f1b2d6b633","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:16:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Perú recibe presidencia de la CAN con el animo de impulsar la integración andina","headline":"Peru receives CAN presidency with aim of boosting Andean integration","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Carlos Espá, afirmó que la presidencia pro tempore de la Comunidad Andina de Naciones (CAN) llega al Perú con \"el ánimo de imprimir un renovado impulso político a la integración a…","quote":"el ánimo de imprimir un renovado impulso político a la integración andina que acerque la integración","quote_en":"the aim of giving renewed political momentum to Andean integration that brings it closer to citizens","context":"El ministro de Relaciones Exteriores, Carlos Espá, afirmó que la presidencia pro tempore de la Comunidad Andina de Naciones (CAN) llega al Perú con \"el ánimo de imprimir un renovado impulso político a la integración andina que acerque la integración\" a la ciudadanía y que \"promueva una mayor competitividad\" en las economías.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Foreign Minister Carlos Espá stated that the pro tempore presidency of the Andean Community of Nations (CAN) comes to Peru with the aim of giving renewed political momentum to Andean integration that brings it closer to citizens and promotes greater competitiveness in the economies.","context_en":"Foreign Minister Carlos Espá stated that the pro tempore presidency of the Andean Community of Nations (CAN) comes to Peru with the aim of giving renewed political momentum to Andean integration that brings it closer to citizens and promotes greater competitiveness in the economies.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-peru-recibe-presidencia-de-can-con-animo-impulsar-integracion-andina-1094090.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-peru-asume-presidencia-pro-tempore-de-comunidad-andina-y-profundizara-integracion-1094084.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"79eea4782ac2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:04:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Japan major makers' confidence up for 6th quarter on AI, chip demand: BOJ","headline":"Major Japanese manufacturers raised their confidence to 24 in September from 22 three months earlier on AI and chip demand, the Bank of Japan said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Business confidence among major Japanese manufacturers rose to 24 in September from 22 three months earlier, helped by strong dema Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Business confidence among major Japanese manufacturers rose to 24 in September from 22 three months earlier, helped by strong dema Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86876","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86834","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"e5cc9ac8185a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T03:01:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"Woman found dead in Christchurch named","headline":"Police in New Zealand charged a 52-year-old man with murder after a woman was found dead in Christchurch","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 52-year-old man has been charged with murder following the woman's death.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 52-year-old man has been charged with murder following the woman's death.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1672557/woman-found-dead-in-christchurch-named","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2871e4279a9e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:59:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERTH","what":"Dead whale finally being removed from Perth beach, four days after washing up","headline":"Workers began burying a 13-metre whale on a Perth beach in Australia four days after it washed up","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The beach remains closed as a $100,000 operation to bury the 13-metre long whale is underway, with sharks still circling the area.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The beach remains closed as a $100,000 operation to bury the 13-metre long whale is underway, with sharks still circling the area.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/humpback-whale-carcass-at-city-beach-heading-to-landfill/107215324","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"23d1b6aca93a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:54:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Agency ends contract of Japan idol group member over suspected assault","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Japanese management agency said Thursday it has terminated the exclusive contract of a member of pop idol group timelesz who was Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Japanese management agency said Thursday it has terminated the exclusive contract of a member of pop idol group timelesz who was Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86873","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"40d8a2a0831e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:45:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"IHC asks govt to settle Afghan students’ stay issue in 30 days","headline":"Pakistan court ordered government to decide Afghan students stay issue in 30 days in Islamabad","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: The Islamabad High Court (IHC) on Wednesday disposed of a writ petition filed by 87 Afghan national students seeking extension of their study visas, converting the case into a representation to be decided b…","quote":"at war with Afghanistan","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: The Islamabad High Court (IHC) on Wednesday disposed of a writ petition filed by 87 Afghan national students seeking extension of their study visas, converting the case into a representation to be decided by the Ministry of Interior within 30 days regarding their stay in Pakistan. The order was passed by Justice Khadim Hussain Soomro on the petition of Ms Atta Reda and others vs the Federation of Pakistan and others.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033885/ihc-asks-govt-to-settle-afghan-students-stay-issue-in-30-days","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6132f3ac8e35","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:42:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MOQUEGUA","what":"Inpe retoma control en penales de Moquegua y Tacna con operativos simultáneos","headline":"Inpe regains control in Moquegua and Tacna prisons with simultaneous operations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Con el objetivo de retornar el orden, la seguridad y el principio de autoridad en los establecimientos penitenciarios, el Instituto Nacional Penitenciario (Inpe) ejecutó revisiones extraordinarias y simultáneas en los…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Con el objetivo de retornar el orden, la seguridad y el principio de autoridad en los establecimientos penitenciarios, el Instituto Nacional Penitenciario (Inpe) ejecutó revisiones extraordinarias y simultáneas en los penales de Moquegua, Tacna Varones y Tacna Mujeres, pertenecientes a la región Sur.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"With the aim of restoring order, security and the principle of authority in penitentiary facilities, the National Penitentiary Institute (Inpe) carried out extraordinary and simultaneous searches in the prisons of Moquegua, Tacna Men and Tacna Women, belonging to the southern region.","context_en":"With the aim of restoring order, security and the principle of authority in penitentiary facilities, the National Penitentiary Institute (Inpe) carried out extraordinary and simultaneous searches in the prisons of Moquegua, Tacna Men and Tacna Women, belonging to the southern region.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-inpe-retoma-control-penales-moquegua-y-tacna-operativos-simultaneos-1094083.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0f26ab3016ed","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:41:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Policía desarticula más de 2250 bandas criminales en el país durante los 2 últimos meses","headline":"Peruvian police dismantle over 2,250 criminal gangs in the country in the last two months","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Entre el 29 de julio y el 29 de septiembre de este año, la Policía Nacional del Perú (PNP) desarticuló 2256 bandas criminales y capturó a 14 124 personas requisitoriadas por la justicia, como resultado de la intensifi…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Entre el 29 de julio y el 29 de septiembre de este año, la Policía Nacional del Perú (PNP) desarticuló 2256 bandas criminales y capturó a 14 124 personas requisitoriadas por la justicia, como resultado de la intensificación de las operaciones desplegadas en distintos puntos del territorio nacional para enfrentar al crimen organizado.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Between July 29 and September 29 this year, the National Police of Peru (PNP) dismantled 2,256 criminal gangs and captured 14,124 people wanted by justice, as a result of intensified operations deployed in different parts of the national territory to confront organized crime.","context_en":"Between July 29 and September 29 this year, the National Police of Peru (PNP) dismantled 2,256 criminal gangs and captured 14,124 people wanted by justice, as a result of intensified operations deployed in different parts of the national territory to confront organized crime.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-policia-desarticula-mas-2250-bandas-criminales-el-pais-durante-los-2-ultimos-meses-1094088.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4fe0147fe33d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:41:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOKYO","what":"Nidec shares sink after auditor withholds opinion on results","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Thursday's stock decline marks its worst intraday drop since September 2025.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Thursday's stock decline marks its worst intraday drop since September 2025.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/business/2026/10/01/markets/nidec-shares-sink/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b614f285e208","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:32:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EL SALVADOR","what":"El Salvador sets date for 2027 presidential election as Bukele seeks third term","headline":"El Salvador set February 28 2027 as the date for its next presidential election so President Nayib Bukele can seek a third term","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Salvador will hold presidential elections on February 28, 2027, the electoral tribunal said Wednesday, opening the way for President Nayib Bukele to seek a third term after constitutional changes removed presidenti…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Salvador will hold presidential elections on February 28, 2027, the electoral tribunal said Wednesday, opening the way for President Nayib Bukele to seek a third term after constitutional changes removed presidential term limits. Bukele has drawn praise for sharply reducing gang violence but faced criticism over rights abuses during his crackdown.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/americas/20261001-el-salvador-sets-2027-presidential-election-as-nayib-bukele-seeks-third-term","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-el-salvador-convoca-a-elecciones-las-nayib-bukele-buscara-un-tercer-mandato-1094078.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"090188d08859","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:31:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"Gunman Kills 2 Co-Workers at Virginia Rental Business","headline":"A gunman killed two co-workers at a Virginia rental business","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 37-year-old man shot three employees at an equipment rental business, then killed himself after a standoff with the police, the authorities said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 37-year-old man shot three employees at an equipment rental business, then killed himself after a standoff with the police, the authorities said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/us/virginia-workplace-shooting.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"40f953078003","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:29:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"¡A seguir escribiendo la historia, profe! La “U” da la bienvenida al DT Fabián Bustos","headline":"Keep writing history, coach! 'U' welcomes manager Fabián Bustos","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El club Universitario de Deportes confirmó este miércoles el retorno del entrenador argentino Fabián Bustos Barbero a la dirección técnica del cuadro estudiantil, que busca en este 2026 el tetracampeonato del fútbol p…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El club Universitario de Deportes confirmó este miércoles el retorno del entrenador argentino Fabián Bustos Barbero a la dirección técnica del cuadro estudiantil, que busca en este 2026 el tetracampeonato del fútbol peruano.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Club Universitario de Deportes confirmed on Wednesday the return of Argentine coach Fabián Bustos Barbero as manager of the student team, which is seeking its fourth consecutive Peruvian football title in 2026.","context_en":"Club Universitario de Deportes confirmed on Wednesday the return of Argentine coach Fabián Bustos Barbero as manager of the student team, which is seeking its fourth consecutive Peruvian football title in 2026.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-a-seguir-escribiendo-historia-profe-u-da-bienvenida-al-dt-fabian-bustos-1094087.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cb47472dbbd7","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:22:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Gobierno reglamenta Ley del Trabajador Social que fortalece a más de 14,500 profesionales","headline":"Government issues regulations for Social Worker Law that strengthens more than 14,500 professionals","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Gobierno aprobó el Reglamento de la Ley N.° 30112, Ley del Ejercicio Profesional del Trabajador Social, mediante el Decreto Supremo N.° 016-2026-TR, publicado hoy en el diario oficial El Peruano, indicó el Minister…","quote":"El Gobierno aprobó el Reglamento de la Ley N.° 30112, Ley del Ejercicio Profesional del Trabajador Social, mediante el Decreto Supremo N.° 016-2026-TR, publicado hoy en el diario oficial El Peruano, indicó el Ministerio de Trabajo y Promoción del Empleo (MTPE).","quote_en":"The Government approved the Regulation of Law No. 30112, the Law on the Professional Practice of the Social Worker, through Supreme Decree No. 016-2026-TR, published today in the official gazette El Peruano, the Ministry of Labor and Employment Promotion (MTPE) said.","context":"El Gobierno aprobó el Reglamento de la Ley N.° 30112, Ley del Ejercicio Profesional del Trabajador Social, mediante el Decreto Supremo N.° 016-2026-TR, publicado hoy en el diario oficial El Peruano, indicó el Ministerio de Trabajo y Promoción del Empleo (MTPE).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Government approved the Regulation of Law No. 30112, the Law on the Professional Practice of the Social Worker, through Supreme Decree No. 016-2026-TR, published today in the official gazette El Peruano, the Ministry of Labor and Employment Promotion (MTPE) said.","context_en":"The Government approved the Regulation of Law No. 30112, the Law on the Professional Practice of the Social Worker, through Supreme Decree No. 016-2026-TR, published today in the official gazette El Peruano, the Ministry of Labor and Employment Promotion (MTPE) said.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-gobierno-reglamenta-ley-del-trabajador-social-fortalece-a-mas-14500-profesionales-1094086.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0aa9da7f03eb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:21:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Russia launches major attack on Ukraine’s energy grid, causing power cuts","headline":"Russian forces hit Ukraine energy grid on Wednesday and killed seven people","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russia launched its heaviest combined assault on Ukraine’s energy infrastructure in months on Wednesday, killing seven people and triggering emergency power cuts in Kyiv and nearby regions.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russia launched its heaviest combined assault on Ukraine’s energy infrastructure in months on Wednesday, killing seven people and triggering emergency power cuts in Kyiv and nearby regions. The strikes came as officials warned of a difficult winter amid Russian attacks on Ukraine’s power and heating infrastructure.","summary":"Russia launched its heaviest attack on Ukraine power and heating plants in months. The strikes on Wednesday cut power in Kyiv and nearby areas. Officials expect a hard winter from the Russian campaign against energy sites.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$25","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20261001-russia-launches-major-attack-on-ukraine-energy-grid-causing-power-cuts","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/ckjw5jx2l393o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a6c6a8e2da1e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:21:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"U.S. dollar up in Taipei trading","headline":"U.S. dollar rose in Taipei, Taiwan trading on Sept. 30","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Oct. 1 (CNA) The U.S. dollar was traded at NT$31.895 at 10 a.m. Thursday on the Taipei Foreign Exchange, up NT$0.043 from the previous close.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010003","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609300003","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609300010","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610020003","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202610010011","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6caa4e422d1e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:18:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Laatste grote hobbel weg voor overname Warner Bros. door Paramount","headline":"Last major hurdle removed for Warner Bros. takeover by Paramount","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Een Amerikaanse rechter heeft de schikking tussen twaalf staten en mediabedrijf Paramount Skydance bekrachtigd.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Een Amerikaanse rechter heeft de schikking tussen twaalf staten en mediabedrijf Paramount Skydance bekrachtigd. Daarmee is ook de laatste grote juridische hobbel voor de overname van Warner Bros. Discovery door Paramount genomen. De staten vreesden dat het nieuwe megaconcern te veel macht zou krijgen en daardoor de prijzen van films en televisie zou kunnen verhogen. Ook waren er zorgen over de gevolgen van de fusie voor werknemers. Vorige week bereikten Paramount en de staten een akkoord .","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A US judge has approved the settlement between twelve states and media company Paramount Skydance. This removes the last major legal obstacle to the takeover of Warner Bros. Discovery by Paramount.","context_en":"A US judge has approved the settlement between twelve states and media company Paramount Skydance. This removes the last major legal obstacle to the takeover of Warner Bros. Discovery by Paramount.","lang":"nl","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633215","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/americas/20260930-paramount-takeover-of-warner-bros-discovery-clears-legal-hurdle","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/business/media/judge-allows-paramount-close-110-billion-takeover-warner-bros-discover-rcna600780","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9f9ea1847440","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:11:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Madman fatally stabs straphanger, 59, during argument on rush-hour NYC subway train: police","headline":"A man fatally stabbed a 59-year-old rider during an argument on a rush-hour J train in New York","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Northbound J trains were forced to bypass the Woodhaven Boulevard station while detectives and crime scene unit officers investigated the deadly transit attack.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Northbound J trains were forced to bypass the Woodhaven Boulevard station while detectives and crime scene unit officers investigated the deadly transit attack.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/madman-fatally-stabs-59-year-old-straphanger-during-argument-on-nyc-subway-train-police/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3ad7f1da9e35","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:09:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Putting off your tax return? You have a month to file","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"People who plan to file their tax returns themselves have until October 31 to get their paperwork in.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"People who plan to file their tax returns themselves have until October 31 to get their paperwork in.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/when-are-tax-returns-due-why-is-my-refund-so-low-/106845470","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"169f3e2c67e2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:05:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COOK ISLANDS","what":"NZDF hits milestones in Penryhn work in northern Cook Islands","headline":"New Zealand Defence Force reached milestones in its work on Penrhyn in the northern Cook Islands on 1 October 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New Zealand Defence Force · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NZDF hits milestones in Penryhn work in northern Cook Islands","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New Zealand Defence Force","url":"https://www.nzdf.mil.nz/media-centre/news/nzdf-hits-milestones-in-penryhn-work-in-northern-cook-islands/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"03585cb81841","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:03:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Ejecutivo presenta proyecto de créditos suplementarios ante el fenómeno El Niño","headline":"Executive presents supplementary credit bill to address El Niño phenomenon","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Poder Ejecutivo presentó hoy al Congreso de la República el proyecto de ley que aprueba créditos suplementarios hasta por 8 mil 288 millones de soles, para el financiamiento de diversas acciones prioritarias, entre…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Poder Ejecutivo presentó hoy al Congreso de la República el proyecto de ley que aprueba créditos suplementarios hasta por 8 mil 288 millones de soles, para el financiamiento de diversas acciones prioritarias, entre ellas para enfrentar el fenómeno El Niño entre el 2026 y el 2027, así como el fortalecimiento de la seguridad ciudadana.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Executive branch presented to Congress today a bill approving supplementary credits of up to 8,288 million soles to finance various priority actions, including measures to confront the El Niño phenomenon between 2026 and 2027 as well as strengthening citizen security.","context_en":"The Executive branch presented to Congress today a bill approving supplementary credits of up to 8,288 million soles to finance various priority actions, including measures to confront the El Niño phenomenon between 2026 and 2027 as well as strengthening citizen security.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ejecutivo-presenta-proyecto-creditos-suplementarios-ante-fenomeno-nino-1094081.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/economia/ejecutivo-propone-incorporar-mas-de-s-8000-millones-al-presupuesto-publico-del-2026-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c60337a94fc6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:03:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PESHAWAR","what":"PTI MNA rejects ‘pressure tactics’, backs protest march plan","headline":"Pakistan PTI lawmaker Shandana Gulzar Khan backed the Oct 4 protest march to Islamabad led by Chief Minister Sohail Afridi in Peshawar","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PESHAWAR: Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) MNA Shandana Gulzar Khan on Wednesday said the party’s planned protest march to Islamabad would begin on Oct 4 and would be led by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Sohail Afridi.","quote":"batons, bullets or restrictions","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PESHAWAR: Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) MNA Shandana Gulzar Khan on Wednesday said the party’s planned protest march to Islamabad would begin on Oct 4 and would be led by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Chief Minister Sohail Afridi. Speaking at a press conference at Peshawar Press Club, alongside KP assembly deputy speaker Surayya Bibi and lawyer Moazam Butt, Ms Gulzar said the party was not afraid of “batons, bullets or restrictions” and would proceed with the march.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.3634},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033814/pti-mna-rejects-pressure-tactics-backs-protest-march-plan","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"faebf56768b2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:02:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IZTAPALAPA","what":"Intensas lluvias dejan varios encharcamientos en Iztapalapa; cuadrillas de la alcaldía realizan labores de limpieza","headline":"Heavy rains leave several flooded areas in Iztapalapa; borough crews carry out cleanup work","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La alcaldesa, Aleida Alavez, informó en sus redes sociales que se realizaron trabajos de limpieza y retiro de basura sobre la calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, así como acciones preventivas en Constitución de 1917, Ermita Izt…","quote":"se realizaron trabajos de limpieza y retiro de basura sobre la calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, así como acciones preventivas en Constitución de 1917, Ermita Iztapalapa y Rojo Gómez","quote_en":"cleanup and garbage removal work was carried out on Calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, as well as preventive actions in Constitución de 1917, Ermita Iztapalapa and Rojo Gómez","context":"La alcaldesa, Aleida Alavez, informó en sus redes sociales que se realizaron trabajos de limpieza y retiro de basura sobre la calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, así como acciones preventivas en Constitución de 1917, Ermita Iztapalapa y Rojo Gómez","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Mayor Aleida Alavez reported on her social networks that cleanup and garbage removal work was carried out on Calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, as well as preventive actions in Constitución de 1917, Ermita Iztapalapa and Rojo Gómez.","context_en":"Mayor Aleida Alavez reported on her social networks that cleanup and garbage removal work was carried out on Calzada Ignacio Zaragoza, as well as preventive actions in Constitución de 1917, Ermita Iztapalapa and Rojo Gómez.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/intensas-lluvias-dejan-varios-encharcamientos-en-iztapalapa-cuadrillas-de-la-alcaldia-realizan-labores-de-limpieza/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5f738712d1cc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T02:02:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"Judicial sympathy cannot override remission law: FCC","headline":"Federal Constitutional Court ruled judicial sympathy cannot override remission law in Pakistan on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: The Federal Cons­titutional Court (FCC) on Wed­nes­day ruled that judicial sympathy should not be permitted to override statutory commands in cases of excessive remission granted to prisoners.","quote":"The rule of law demands that executive authorities administer remissions faithfully within the limits prescribed by the legislature,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: The Federal Cons­titutional Court (FCC) on Wed­nes­day ruled that judicial sympathy should not be permitted to override statutory commands in cases of excessive remission granted to prisoners. “Where the sentence relates to an offence punishable with heinous crimes and the legislature has consciously prescribed safeguards to ensure that a sentence of imprisonment for life retains its substantive penal content, judicial sympathy cannot be permitted to override statutory commands,” observed Justice Rozi Khan Barrech.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033879/judicial-sympathy-cannot-override-remission-law-fcc","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c4c82fe7d028","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:53:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"TikTok couple charged with arson after house fire causes $10K in damage","headline":"Dakota Harper and Felicity Eatmon faced arson and conspiracy charges after a fire they set damaged an abandoned house and nearby church in the amount of 10,000 dollars","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Dakota Harper and Felicity Eatmon face arson and conspiracy charges after a fire damaged an abandoned home and nearby church.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Dakota Harper and Felicity Eatmon face arson and conspiracy charges after a fire damaged an abandoned home and nearby church.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/tiktok-couple-charged-arson-house-fire-causes-10k-damage","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86b0ae26c159","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:51:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUSCO","what":"Ministerio Público pedirá 9 meses de prisión preventiva para mujer que atropelló en Cusco","headline":"Public Prosecutor's Office to request 9 months of pre-trial detention for woman who ran over people in Cusco","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio Público de Cusco solicitará nueve meses de prisión preventiva de la libertad para Martha Erlinda Morales Alarcón (54), investigada por embestir, atropellar y causar la muerte de una adulta y dejar a más…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio Público de Cusco solicitará nueve meses de prisión preventiva de la libertad para Martha Erlinda Morales Alarcón (54), investigada por embestir, atropellar y causar la muerte de una adulta y dejar a más de 10 heridos, la mayoría escolares.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Public Prosecutor's Office in Cusco will request nine months of pre-trial detention for Martha Erlinda Morales Alarcón (54), who is under investigation for crashing into, running over and killing one adult and injuring more than 10 others, most of them schoolchildren.","context_en":"The Public Prosecutor's Office in Cusco will request nine months of pre-trial detention for Martha Erlinda Morales Alarcón (54), who is under investigation for crashing into, running over and killing one adult and injuring more than 10 others, most of them schoolchildren.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ministerio-publico-pedira-9-meses-prision-preventiva-para-mujer-atropello-cusco-1094080.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"225f2fad7d29","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"US military cuts generals, admirals by 20%, Hegseth says","headline":"US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said the military will cut generals and admirals by 20 percent and create a new drone command","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The US defense secretary has also unveiled major changes, including a new drone command and an Elon Musk-led task force to assess the future of warfare.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The US defense secretary has also unveiled major changes, including a new drone command and an Elon Musk-led task force to assess the future of warfare.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/us-military-cuts-generals-admirals-by-20-hegseth-says/a-79495683?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Politics/hegseth-targets-militarys-top-brass-deeper-cuts-officials/story?id=136867592","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"904c1e5e8d40","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:37:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SAN MARTIN","what":"San Martín: bomberos controlan incendio de dos camiones cisterna de diésel en Rioja","headline":"San Martín: firefighters control diesel tanker truck fire in Rioja","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un incendio de grandes proporciones, que involucró a dos camiones cisterna cargados de diésel a un costado de la carretera Fernando Belaunde Terry, cerca de la zona de Moliselva y de la base militar de Rioja, en la re…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un incendio de grandes proporciones, que involucró a dos camiones cisterna cargados de diésel a un costado de la carretera Fernando Belaunde Terry, cerca de la zona de Moliselva y de la base militar de Rioja, en la región San Martín, movilizó a unidades del Cuerpo General de Bomberos Voluntarios del Perú (CGBVP).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A large fire involving two tanker trucks loaded with diesel on the side of the Fernando Belaunde Terry highway, near the Moliselva area and the Rioja military base in the San Martín region, mobilized units of the General Corps of Volunteer Firefighters of Peru (CGBVP).","context_en":"A large fire involving two tanker trucks loaded with diesel on the side of the Fernando Belaunde Terry highway, near the Moliselva area and the Rioja military base in the San Martín region, mobilized units of the General Corps of Volunteer Firefighters of Peru (CGBVP).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-san-martin-bomberos-controlan-incendio-dos-camiones-cisterna-diesel-rioja-1094079.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa0cc6468fdf","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:25:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Senate Democrats block bill to limit lawmakers' stock trades","headline":"Senate Democrats blocked a Republican bill to limit lawmakers stock trades in Washington on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Republican-led effort to approve a House-passed stock trading bill fell short in the Senate, with Democrats saying the restrictions don't go far enough and pushing back against a voter ID provision.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Republican-led effort to approve a House-passed stock trading bill fell short in the Senate, with Democrats saying the restrictions don't go far enough and pushing back against a voter ID provision.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/senate-stock-trading-voter-id-bill-democrats-block/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2026/09/30/congress/senate-stock-trading-vote-01099912","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"59da6f4ceecd","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:23:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"MTC impulsa modernización de aeropuertos de Chiclayo, Piura, Trujillo y Cajamarca","headline":"MTC advances modernization of airports in Chiclayo, Piura, Trujillo and Cajamarca","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones (MTC), a través de la Dirección General de Programas y Proyectos de Transportes y Aeropuertos del Perú (AdP), modernizará los aeropuertos de Chiclayo (Lambayeque), Piura,…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones (MTC), a través de la Dirección General de Programas y Proyectos de Transportes y Aeropuertos del Perú (AdP), modernizará los aeropuertos de Chiclayo (Lambayeque), Piura, Trujillo (La Libertad) y Cajamarca, con inversiones por más de US$700 millones, destinadas a ampliar la capacidad de sus terminales, mejorar los servicios para los pasajeros y atender el crecimiento previsto del transporte aéreo en estas regiones.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), through the Directorate General of Transport and Airport Programs and Projects of Peru (AdP), will modernize the airports of Chiclayo (Lambayeque), Piura, Trujillo (La Libertad) and Cajamarca with investments of more than US$700 million. The funds are intended to expand the capacity of their terminals, improve passenger services and handle the","context_en":"The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), through the Directorate General of Transport and Airport Programs and Projects of Peru (AdP), will modernize the airports of Chiclayo (Lambayeque), Piura, Trujillo (La Libertad) and Cajamarca with investments of more than US$700 million. The funds are intended to expand the capacity of their terminals, improve passenger services and handle the","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-mtc-impulsa-modernizacion-aeropuertos-chiclayo-piura-trujillo-y-cajamarca-1094077.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8974e27373a6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:23:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW ZEALAND","what":"New Zealand Parliament dissolved ahead of tight November vote","headline":"New Zealand parliament held its last sitting on 23 September ahead of the 7 November election","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The New Zealand parliament held its final sitting on Sept 23 ahead of the Nov 7 vote.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The New Zealand parliament held its final sitting on Sept 23 ahead of the Nov 7 vote.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/australianz/new-zealand-parliament-dissolved-ahead-of-tight-november-vote","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"658b2033dd46","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:20:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Newsom, Eager for a Higher Perch, Climbs the Golden Gate Bridge","headline":"Gov Gavin Newsom climbed a cable on the Golden Gate Bridge before he signed a bill at the top of its south tower in California","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Gov.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Gov. Gavin Newsom of California scrambled up a bridge cable before signing a bill at the top of the south tower.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/us/newsom-golden-gate-bridge.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"3f129fd46a0e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:14:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RHENEN","what":"ME ingezet in Rhenen na vernieling met vuurwerk bij gemeentehuis","headline":"Emergency services deployed in Rhenen after fireworks vandalism at town hall","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Twee ruiten van het gemeentehuis van Rhenen zijn afgelopen avond vernield met vuurwerk.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Twee ruiten van het gemeentehuis van Rhenen zijn afgelopen avond vernield met vuurwerk. Dat gebeurde na een raadsvergadering over de opvang van asielzoekers in de gemeente. Eerder op de avond was er vanwege de stemming een onaangekondigde demonstratie bij het gemeentehuis. Volgens RTV Utrecht verliep die rustig. Er waren enkele honderden mensen op de been. Op foto's valt te zien dat het vooral ging om jongeren. Er werd vuurwerk afgestoken, maar er waren volgens de regionale omroep geen grote ongeregeldheden. Vanwege de demonstratie was er veel politie aanwezig.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Two windows of the Rhenen town hall were destroyed with fireworks last night. It happened after a council meeting on asylum seeker accommodation in the municipality. Earlier in the evening an unannounced demonstration took place at the town hall because of the vote. According to RTV Utrecht it passed off peacefully. Several hundred people turned out. Photos show it was mainly young people.","context_en":"Two windows of the Rhenen town hall were destroyed with fireworks last night. It happened after a council meeting on asylum seeker accommodation in the municipality. Earlier in the evening an unannounced demonstration took place at the town hall because of the vote. According to RTV Utrecht it passed off peacefully. Several hundred people turned out. Photos show it was mainly young people.","lang":"nl","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633214","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4db8fee2a375","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:05:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Overheid neemt toezicht op makelaars over van makelaars zelf","headline":"Government takes over oversight of real estate agents from the sector itself","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Met frisse tegenzin gaat woonminister Boekholt-O'Sullivan (D66) zich bemoeien met de makelaarsbranche.","quote":"Heel veel mensen hebben het gevoel dat het geen eerlijk proces is om een huis te kopen of te verkopen.","quote_en":"A lot of people feel that buying or selling a house is not a fair process.","context":"Met frisse tegenzin gaat woonminister Boekholt-O'Sullivan (D66) zich bemoeien met de makelaarsbranche. Zij gaat een makelaarsregister introduceren en een klachtenloket voor ontevreden kopers en verkopers. \"Heel veel mensen hebben het gevoel dat het geen eerlijk proces is om een huis te kopen of te verkopen.\" De minister liet onderzoek doen. Bijna een derde van de respondenten had ten minste één negatieve ervaring met een makelaar, in veel gevallen een verkoopmakelaar. Bijna negentig procent van de klachten ging over een makelaar aangesloten bij een branchevereniging.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Housing minister Boekholt-O'Sullivan (D66) will introduce a real estate agents register and a complaints desk for dissatisfied buyers and sellers, despite reluctance.","context_en":"Housing minister Boekholt-O'Sullivan (D66) will introduce a real estate agents register and a complaints desk for dissatisfied buyers and sellers, despite reluctance.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633213","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"98b4c81402ca","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T01:00:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH KOREA","what":"New Zealand Army legal officer supporting United Nations Command in South Korea","headline":"New Zealand sent an army legal officer to support the United Nations Command in South Korea on 1 October 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New Zealand Defence Force · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New Zealand Army legal officer supporting United Nations Command in South Korea","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New Zealand Defence Force","url":"https://www.nzdf.mil.nz/media-centre/news/new-zealand-army-legal-officer-supporting-united-nations-command-in-south-korea/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"123b681361fc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:57:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"California bans child marriage, a practice still legal in 32 US states","headline":"California banned child marriage a practice still legal in 32 other US states","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Gov Gavin Newsom called it a \"long overdue measure to protect young Californians\".","quote":"long overdue measure to protect young Californians","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Gov Gavin Newsom called it a \"long overdue measure to protect young Californians\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6rm9mnn0w3eo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ae7f96451ddc","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:56:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WELLINGTON","what":"Wellington City Council, Tiaki Wai prosecuted over Moa Point plant disaster","headline":"Wellington City Council and Tiaki Wai faced prosecution in New Zealand over the Moa Point plant disaster","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The council says it anticipated the prosecution and acknowledges the seriousness of the incident.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The council says it anticipated the prosecution and acknowledges the seriousness of the incident.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1667699/wellington-city-council-tiaki-wai-prosecuted-over-moa-point-plant-disaster","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a5407665f354","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:55:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"Trump again says Ukrainian strikes on Russian oil refineries have affected diesel market","headline":"Trump said Ukrainian strikes on Russian oil refineries in Ukraine affected the diesel market more than the Middle East conflict","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"US President Donald Trump says the war between Russia and Ukraine, including strikes on Russian oil refineries, has had a greater impact on the diesel fuel market than the conflict in the Middle East.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US President Donald Trump says the war between Russia and Ukraine, including strikes on Russian oil refineries, has had a greater impact on the diesel fuel market than the conflict in the Middle East.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055893/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b3f8c7244d3e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:54:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"REPUBLIC OF CONGO","what":"Congolese cyclist dies during 14,000-kilometer African journey for peace","headline":"A 23-year-old Congolese cyclist died in a road crash in the Republic of Congo during his 14000-kilometer journey across Africa for peace","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 23-year-old Congolese cyclist who set out on a 14,000-kilometer journey across Africa to promote peace has died in a road crash in the Republic of Congo, ending an expedition that had taken him thousands of kilomete…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 23-year-old Congolese cyclist who set out on a 14,000-kilometer journey across Africa to promote peace has died in a road crash in the Republic of Congo, ending an expedition that had taken him thousands of kilometers from his home in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Christian Daily International","url":"https://www.christiandaily.com/news/congolese-cyclist-dies-during-14-000-kilometer-african-journey-for-peace","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6f626d357da4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:36:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"Georgia college student miraculously survives 8-story plunge after metal bench breaks her fall","headline":"University of Georgia student survived an eight-story fall at Rambler Athens after a metal bench broke her plunge while she danced near an open window","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A University of Georgia student fell eight stories at Rambler Athens after dancing near an open window, but a metal bench may have broken her fall.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A University of Georgia student fell eight stories at Rambler Athens after dancing near an open window, but a metal bench may have broken her fall.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/georgia-college-student-miraculously-survives-8-story-plunge-after-metal-bench-breaks-her-fall","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eb62cf363c78","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:32:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"ASU hockey coach put on leave after player collapsed during workout","headline":"Arizona State put its hockey coach on leave after player Matthew Mayich, 21, collapsed during a workout on Aug. 20 and stayed hospitalized","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Matthew Mayich, a 21-year-old sophomore from Ontario, Canada, collapsed during a workout on Aug.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Matthew Mayich, a 21-year-old sophomore from Ontario, Canada, collapsed during a workout on Aug. 20 and remains hospitalized.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/asu-hockey-coach-greg-powers-on-leave-matthew-mayich-collapse/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/asu-hockey-coach-put-leave-hospitalized-player-unlikely-recover-family-rcna600720","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cc477ab1211d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:29:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHERN TERRITORY","what":"Teenager faces youth justice court over 'pro-Nazi' Instagram posts","headline":"A teenager faced youth justice court in Australia over pro-Nazi Instagram posts","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A teenager who allegedly posted \"pro-Nazi, anti-immigration, anti-trans and white nationalist\" content on Instagram has faced the Youth Justice Court on a string of Commonwealth charges.","quote":"pro-Nazi, anti-immigration, anti-trans and white nationalist","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A teenager who allegedly posted \"pro-Nazi, anti-immigration, anti-trans and white nationalist\" content on Instagram has faced the Youth Justice Court on a string of Commonwealth charges.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/nt-teenager-nazi-white-nationalist-instagram-terror-video-hitler/107204124","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2f3c8dc9664e","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:19:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"ICE arrests illegal alien accused of sexually assaulting children after Fairfax County release: DHS","headline":"ICE arrested Honduran immigrant Oscar Evaristo Nunez in Virginia after Fairfax County released him despite a detainer on child sex assault charges","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DHS says Fairfax County, Virginia, released Oscar Evaristo Nunez, a Honduran immigrant charged with child sex crimes, despite an ICE detainer.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"DHS says Fairfax County, Virginia, released Oscar Evaristo Nunez, a Honduran immigrant charged with child sex crimes, despite an ICE detainer.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/ice-arrests-illegal-alien-accused-sexually-assaulting-children-fairfax-county-release-dhs","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8764e1f257a4","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:18:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"DOJ investigating Texas Dem group after operative suggests it’s ‘paying people’ for votes in viral video","headline":"Justice Department opened an investigation into Texas Majority PAC after a fired organizer said in a viral video that the group paid people for votes in Texas","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“If I was a Republican, I would be pissed.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“If I was a Republican, I would be pissed. I would be like, that’s shady as f–k,\" said Sky MacAdams, a since-fired organizing manager for Texas Majority PAC.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/doj-investigating-texas-dem-group-after-operative-suggests-its-paying-people-for-votes-in-viral-video/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e88c8e90a45","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:08:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Scoop: Rubio ordered Iranian delegation to leave the country, U.S. official says","headline":"Secretary of State Marco Rubio ordered the Iranian delegation to leave the US on Monday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Secretary of State Marco Rubio demanded on Monday that the Iranian delegation to the United Nations General Assembly immediately leave the country after negotiations stalled, according to a U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Secretary of State Marco Rubio demanded on Monday that the Iranian delegation to the United Nations General Assembly immediately leave the country after negotiations stalled, according to a U.S. official and a second source with knowledge of the matter.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The US and Iran have fought a running war since late February 2026 when American and Israeli strikes began against Iranian targets. The conflict narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz after a June memorandum lifted mutual blockades and set a 60-day negotiating window. That window closed on 8 July when the ceasefire collapsed and nightly US strikes resumed.\n\nOn 29 September Secretary of State Marco Rubio ordered the Iranian delegation at the United Nations General Assembly in New York to leave the country at once. The demand came after talks between the two sides stalled.\n\nThe delegation is now required to depart while US strikes continue against Iranian maritime and logistics sites along the strait and the fight over passage through Hormuz determines the next phase of the war.","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/10/01/rubio-iran-unga-delegation-kicked-out","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"38e7433e1baa","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"[WC Docket Nos. 25-208, 25-209; FCC 26-19; FR ID 370342] Reducing Barriers to Network Improvements and Service Changes, Accelerating Network Modernization","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. In this document, the Wireline Competition Bureau (Bureau) announces that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has approved the information collection associated with the Commission's revised network change disclosure and service discontinuance rules in a Report and Order, which stated that the revised rules would not become effective until OMB completed its review of any information collection requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act and that the Bureau would announce the effective date for the revised rules by subsequent Public Notice. (Federal Communications Commission)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20192/wc-docket-nos-25-208-25-209-fcc-26-19-fr-id-370342-reducing-barriers-to-network-improvements-and","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c4fd3b432da9","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"VIRGINIA","what":"Administration of Cross-State Air Pollution Rule Trading Program Assurance Provisions for 2025 Control Period","headline":"EPA posted data on Virginia power plant nitrogen oxide emissions that exceeded the 2025 Cross-State Air Pollution Rule assurance level","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is providing notice of the availability of data on the administration of the assurance provisions of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) trading program for the 2025 control period. Virginia units participating in the CSAPR NO<INF>X</INF> Ozone Season Group 2E Trading Program during the 2025 control period reported total nitrogen oxides (NO<INF>X</INF>) emissions that exceeded the State's assurance level under the program. The EPA has posted on the Agency's website a spreadsheet that presents data demonstrating the exceedance and the Agency's final calculations of the additional allowances that owners and operators of certain Virginia units must surrender. (Environmental Protection Agency)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20191/administration-of-cross-state-air-pollution-rule-trading-program-assurance-provisions-for-2025","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7cc9636d9fc6","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Notice of Availability of Proposed Policy Guidance for the Capital Investment Grants Program","headline":"The Federal Transit Administration sought comment on revised policy guidance for its Capital Investment Grants program","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. This notice requests comment on FTA's revised policy guidance for the Capital Investment Grants (CIG) program. The CIG Policy Guidance provides an overview of CIG project types and the CIG process from project initiation to construction grant award. The proposed revisions are intended to streamline the CIG process, improve accountability of CIG project sponsors, and improve overall readability of the policy guidance. The proposals incorporate suggestions FTA received in response to its Request for Information published on August 19, 2025. The final CIG Policy Guidance, when published on the FTA website, is to be effective immediately; no grandfathering will be allowed for any projects currently in the CIG pipeline. (Transportation Department, Federal Transit Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20179/notice-of-availability-of-proposed-policy-guidance-for-the-capital-investment-grants-program","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"17ad13f4d49a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Unleashing American Energy and Economic Prosperity; Rural Energy for America Program (REAP)","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$26","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20178/unleashing-american-energy-and-economic-prosperity-rural-energy-for-america-program-reap","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e5408b20f8a","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"ALASKA","what":"Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off Alaska; Exchange of Flatfish in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area","headline":"NMFS swapped unused yellowfin sole and flathead sole CDQ for rock sole CDQ in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rule. NMFS is exchanging unused yellowfin sole and flathead sole Community Development Quota (CDQ) for rock sole CDQ acceptable biological catch (ABC) reserves in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands (BSAI) management area. This action is necessary to allow the CDQ fishery to optimize their total rock sole harvest in the BSAI. (Commerce Department, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20177/fisheries-of-the-exclusive-economic-zone-off-alaska-exchange-of-flatfish-in-the-bering-sea-and","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"08765f4c74a2","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Petition for Rulemaking; Notification of Petition for Rulemaking; Invalid Specimen Determinations","headline":"Transportation Department received a petition to set medical standards for invalid drug test specimens in February 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Proposed Rule.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$27","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20169/petition-for-rulemaking-notification-of-petition-for-rulemaking-invalid-specimen-determinations","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8123e40c2679","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"ARIZONA","what":"Codex Alimentarius Commission: Meeting of the Codex Committee on Food Hygiene","headline":"The US Codex Office holds a public meeting on October 29 2026 to prepare for the Codex food hygiene committee session in Scottsdale Arizona","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S Codex Office is sponsoring a public meeting on October 29, 2026. The objective of the public meeting is to provide information and receive public comments on agenda items to be discussed at the 56th Session of the Codex Committee on Food Hygiene (CCFH) of the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC). CCFH56 will be held in Scottsdale, Arizona, from November 16-20, 2026. The U.S. Executive Director for Codex Alimentarius and the Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agricultural Affairs recognize the importance of providing interested parties the opportunity to obtain background information on the 56th Session of the CCFH and to address items on the agenda. (Agriculture Department, U.S. Codex Office)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20168/codex-alimentarius-commission-meeting-of-the-codex-committee-on-food-hygiene","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f1043511da17","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Stationary and Portable Air Compressors From Malaysia: Preliminary Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination and Alignment of Final Determination With Final Antidumping Duty Determination","headline":"Commerce found countervailable subsidies for air compressor makers in China, Malaysia and Vietnam","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) preliminarily determines that countervailable subsidies are being provided to producers and exporters of stationary and portable air compressors (air compressors) from Malaysia. The period of investigation is January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025. Interested parties are invited to comment on this preliminary determination. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20166/stationary-and-portable-air-compressors-from-malaysia-preliminary-affirmative-countervailing-duty","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20165/stationary-and-portable-air-compressors-from-the-peoples-republic-of-china-preliminary-affirmative","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20164/stationary-and-portable-air-compressors-from-the-socialist-republic-of-vietnam-preliminary","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"83de5eeecf2c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Truck Bed Covers From the People's Republic of China: Preliminary Affirmative Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Postponement of Final Determination, and Extension of Provisional Measures","headline":"The United States found that truck bed covers from China were sold at less than fair value in a preliminary ruling","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) preliminarily determines that truck bed covers from the People's Republic of China (China) are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value (LTFV). The period of investigation is July 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20163/truck-bed-covers-from-the-peoples-republic-of-china-preliminary-affirmative-determination-of-sales","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"593f2fdb2b94","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Large Diameter Graphite Electrodes From India: Preliminary Affirmative Critical Circumstances Determination in Countervailing Duty Investigation","headline":"Commerce preliminarily determined critical circumstances exist in the countervailing duty probe of large diameter graphite electrodes from India","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) preliminarily determines that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of large diameter graphite electrodes (large graphite electrodes) from India. The period of investigation is January 1, 2025, through December 31, 2025. Interested parties are invited to comment on this preliminary determination of critical circumstances. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20162/large-diameter-graphite-electrodes-from-india-preliminary-affirmative-critical-circumstances","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8ed61d21510d","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MARYLAND","what":"Fiscal Year 2027 Inflation Adjustment to H.R. 1 Immigration Fees","headline":"USCIS set higher immigration fees for fiscal year 2027 under H.R. 1","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), a component of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), is announcing inflationary adjustments to immigration-related fees administered by USCIS under the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (H.R. 1) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2027. H.R. 1 mandates that USCIS adjust the H.R. 1 fees annually. This notice outlines the adjusted fees and their effective date. (Homeland Security Department)","summary":"USCIS announced the inflation-adjusted fees for immigration services required by the One Big Beautiful Bill Act known as H.R. 1. The changes take effect for any request postmarked on or after October 16, 2026. H.R. 1 passed in July 2025 and requires annual updates based on the Consumer Price Index. Requests without the new proper fee will be rejected.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"immigration","sim":0.434},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$28","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20187/fiscal-year-2027-inflation-adjustment-to-hr-1-immigration-fees","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20186/certain-dhs-immigration-related-fees-required-by-hr-1-fiscal-year-2027-adjustments-for-inflation","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20185/certain-dhs-immigration-related-fees-required-by-hr-1-fiscal-year-2027-adjustments-for-inflation","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ed9fb110d768","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Information Collection Requirement; Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement; Covered Defense Telecommunications Equipment or Services","headline":"The Defense Department asked to clear a new information collection on covered defense telecommunications equipment and services","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The Defense Acquisition Regulations System has submitted to OMB for clearance the following proposal for collection of information under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act. (Defense Department, Defense Acquisition Regulations System)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20176/information-collection-requirement-defense-federal-acquisition-regulation-supplement-covered-defense","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20175/information-collection-requirement-defense-federal-acquisition-regulation-supplement-dfars-part-219","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20172/information-collection-requirement-defense-federal-acquisition-regulation-supplement-dfars-part-247","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20174/information-collection-requirement-defense-federal-acquisition-regulation-supplement-dfars-part-237","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20173/information-collection-requirement-defense-federal-acquisition-regulation-supplement-dfars-part-245","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3e35f730f503","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Initiation of Five-Year (Sunset) Reviews","headline":"Commerce started five-year sunset reviews of antidumping and countervailing duty orders","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. In accordance with the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) is automatically initiating the five-year reviews (Sunset Reviews) of the antidumping duty (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) orders and suspended investigations listed below. The U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) is publishing concurrently with this notice its notice of Institution of Five-Year Reviews which covers the same orders and suspended investigations. (Commerce Department, International Trade Administration)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20161/initiation-of-five-year-sunset-reviews","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20160/initiation-of-antidumping-and-countervailing-duty-administrative-reviews","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3af5f784d867","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Agency Information Collection Activities; Revision; Entry Summary","headline":"U.S. Customs and Border Protection asked to revise its entry summary information collection","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Notice.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Notice. The Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) will be submitting the following information collection request to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA). The information collection is published in the Federal Register to obtain comments from the public and affected agencies. (Homeland Security Department, U.S. Customs and Border Protection)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20171/agency-information-collection-activities-revision-entry-summary","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20170/agency-information-collection-activities-revision-entry","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Federal Register","url":"https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2026/10/01/2026-20167/agency-information-collection-activities-submission-to-the-office-of-management-and-budget-omb-for","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"885318a14101","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"OREGON","what":"Judge orders college to re-enroll expelled student who used Shrek meme to criticize board decisions","headline":"Federal judge orders Oregon college to let student back in after Shrek meme criticism","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Student's public comments at board meetings and critical emails were \"at times annoying, long-winded, aggressive, hyperbolic, and grandiose\" but not a \"true threat,\" just an \"engaged student\" concerned about college's…","quote":"at times annoying, long-winded, aggressive, hyperbolic, and grandiose","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Student's public comments at board meetings and critical emails were \"at times annoying, long-winded, aggressive, hyperbolic, and grandiose\" but not a \"true threat,\" just an \"engaged student\" concerned about college's priorities.","summary":"A federal judge told Lane Community College to lift its ban on student Richard Riordan. The school had blocked him from campus and classes until the year 2099 after he used a Shrek meme to criticize board decisions. The judge said Riordan's comments were annoying at times but not a true threat. He ruled the angry speech is protected by the First Amendment.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.4742},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$29","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/nation/free-speech/judge-orders-college-re-enroll-student-banned-using-shrek-meme-criticize-board?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"75625275b73c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Government watchdog sues CIA for records of Fauci communications on COVID-19 origins","headline":"A government watchdog sued the CIA in Washington for records of Anthony Fauci's communications on the origins of COVID-19","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The request also seeks communications regarding gain-of-function research, the Wuhan Institute of Virology, and the selection of scientific experts consulted during the government’s COVID-19 origins investigations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The request also seeks communications regarding gain-of-function research, the Wuhan Institute of Virology, and the selection of scientific experts consulted during the government’s COVID-19 origins investigations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/courts-law/government-watchdog-sues-cia-records-fauci-communications-covid-19-origins?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f8aa93968e01","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"FORT WORTH","what":"Assistant Attorney General Colin M. McDonald Issues Memorandum on the National Fraud Enforcement Division’s Corporate Enforcement Priorities","headline":"Assistant Attorney General Colin M McDonald released a memo on corporate enforcement priorities for the Justice Department division in Fort Worth","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Assistant Attorney General Colin M.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Assistant Attorney General Colin M. McDonald of the Justice Department’s National Fraud Enforcement Division released a memorandum today regarding the Division’s corporate enforcement priorities.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/assistant-attorney-general-colin-m-mcdonald-issues-memorandum-national-fraud-enforcement-0","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8f9a603a159c","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MINNESOTA","what":"Two Minnesota Men Plead Guilty to Defrauding Medicaid Housing Services Program","headline":"Two Minnesota men pleaded guilty in federal court to defrauding a Medicaid housing services program, October 1, 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"U.S. Department of Justice · October 1, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two Minnesota Men Plead Guilty to Defrauding Medicaid Housing Services Program","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/two-minnesota-men-plead-guilty-defrauding-medicaid-housing-services-program","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5db9663bb4eb","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"California Man Arrested for Smuggling More Than $300 Million in Export-Controlled Computer Servers to China","headline":"Prosecutors charged Greg Lui with smuggling over 300 million dollars in computer servers to China","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The owner of a San Gabriel Valley-based technology company was arrested today on a three-count federal indictment charging him with smuggling more than $300 million worth of export-controlled high-end computer servers…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The owner of a San Gabriel Valley-based technology company was arrested today on a three-count federal indictment charging him with smuggling more than $300 million worth of export-controlled high-end computer servers containing U.S.-manufactured graphics processing units (GPUs) commonly used for Super Intelligence (SI) applications to China.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2a","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/california-man-arrested-smuggling-more-300-million-export-controlled-computer-servers-china","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dc836918d557","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"OKLAHOMA","what":"Watch Live: President Donald Trump speaks at rally in Oklahoma","headline":"President Donald Trump spoke at a rally in Oklahoma after a stop at Peterbilt Motors Company in Denton, Texas","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The president traveled to Texas and Oklahoma earlier in the day, first appearing at the site of the Peterbilt Motors Company in Denton, Texas.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The president traveled to Texas and Oklahoma earlier in the day, first appearing at the site of the Peterbilt Motors Company in Denton, Texas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6122030-live-updates-trump-texas-oklahoma-midterm-elections/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/white-house/watch-live-president-donald-trump-speaks-rally-oklahoma?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"15ea5bda627b","datetime_utc":"2026-10-01T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON STATE","what":"Department of Energy Employee Arrested in Washington State on Charges of Attempted Material Support to Houthis","headline":"Prosecutors charged a Department of Energy worker in Washington state with trying to aid Iran-backed Houthis","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ashton Hamed Ellaboudy, 51, a resident of Richland, Washington, was arrested this morning and charged with attempting to provide material support or resources to the Houthis, a designated foreign terrorist organization.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ashton Hamed Ellaboudy, 51, a resident of Richland, Washington, was arrested this morning and charged with attempting to provide material support or resources to the Houthis, a designated foreign terrorist organization. Ellaboudy is scheduled to make an initial appearance before a federal magistrate judge on Oct. 2 at 11:00 a.m. in Richland.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2b","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/world/doe-employee-charged-trying-aid-iran-backed-houthis-feds-say","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/government/federal-agencies/department-energy-employee-arrested-allegedly-trying-provide-material?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-energy-employee-arrested-washington-state-charges-attempted-material-support","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/6124659-doe-employee-arrested-alleged-houthi-support/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/10/02/us-news/energy-department-employee-ashton-hamed-ellaboudy-arrested-for-supporting-iran-houthis/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e8d8dab72e87","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:44:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump renews calls for former Federal Reserve chief Jerome Powell's resignation","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Federal Reserve's watchdog on Wednesday found no grounds for a criminal referral over a roughly $1 billion cost overrun on renovations to the central bank's Washington buildings, while faulting project oversight.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Federal Reserve's watchdog on Wednesday found no grounds for a criminal referral over a roughly $1 billion cost overrun on renovations to the central bank's Washington buildings, while faulting project oversight. The findings prompted President Donald Trump to renew his call for former Fed chief Jerome Powell to resign.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/americas/20260930-trump-renews-calls-for-former-federal-reserve-chief-jerome-powell-resignation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6121704-trump-blanche-fed-renovation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"812b0941329e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:41:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADHYA PRADESH","what":"The children dying in India's remote tribal heartland","headline":"At least 32 children died in India's Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh since May from measles and malaria outbreaks","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"At least 32 children have died in India's Balaghat district since May amid outbreaks of measles and malaria.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"At least 32 children have died in India's Balaghat district since May amid outbreaks of measles and malaria.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cmn9wr84v1qno?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d8ba37b90c58","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:40:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TENNESSEE","what":"Højesteret ophæver udsættelse af henrettelse i Tennessee","headline":"Supreme Court lifts stay of execution in Tennessee","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Højesteret ophæver udsættelse af henrettelse i Tennessee","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Supreme Court has lifted a stay of execution in Tennessee.","context_en":"The Supreme Court has lifted a stay of execution in Tennessee.","lang":"da","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/internacional/primera-mujer-condenada-muerte-tennessee_1_1131407.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"SCOTUSblog","url":"https://www.scotusblog.com/2026/09/supreme-court-allows-for-execution-of-only-woman-on-tennessees-death-row/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/hoejesteret-ophaever-udsaettelse-af-henrettelse-i-tennessee","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a5fd24d43096","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:33:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"California Gov. Gavin Newsom signs laws to protect workers from AI risks","headline":"California Gov Gavin Newsom signed laws to protect workers from AI risks on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ABC News · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"California Gov. Gavin Newsom signs laws to protect workers from AI risks","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Technology/wireStory/california-gov-gavin-newsom-signs-laws-protect-workers-136904967","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/california-gov-newsom-signs-laws-to-punish-ice-agents/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"46af0e8acc70","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:15:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"Tinubu signs 2025 budget extension bill into law","headline":"President Tinubu signed a 2025 budget extension bill into law in Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Tinubu administration has extended the implementation of the capital component of the 2025 budget four times.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Tinubu administration has extended the implementation of the capital component of the 2025 budget four times.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/913688-tinubu-signs-2025-budget-extension-bill-into-law.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b2e310f9d351","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:12:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SWITZERLAND","what":"Bloedhete zomer kostte Zwitserse gletsjers vele meters ijs: 'Dit is de toekomst'","headline":"Scorching summer cost Swiss glaciers many meters of ice: 'This is the future'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Zwitserse gletsjers hebben extreem zwaar te lijden gehad onder de afgelopen zomer.","quote":"Zelfs op een septemberochtend kun je het ijs nog horen smelten","quote_en":"Even on a September morning you can still hear the ice melting","context":"De Zwitserse gletsjers hebben extreem zwaar te lijden gehad onder de afgelopen zomer. Niet alleen de aanhoudende hitte speelde de gletsjers parten. Er viel 's winters ook weinig sneeuw, waarvan veel bovendien al in juni was weggesmolten. Daarna lagen de gletsjers maandenlang onbeschermd in de volle zon terwijl hittegolf na hittegolf het ijs teisterde. 5,5 procent van de ijsmassa smolt. Dat komt neer op 2,5 tot 4 meter van de gemiddelde ijsdikte. Op de gletsjertongen ging het op sommige stukken om maar liefst 10 meter.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Swiss glaciers suffered extremely under the past summer. Not only the persistent heat affected the glaciers. There was also little snow in winter, much of which had already melted by June. After that the glaciers lay unprotected in the full sun for months while heat wave after heat wave tormented the ice. 5.5 percent of the ice mass melted. That amounts to 2.5 to 4 meters of the average ice","context_en":"The Swiss glaciers suffered extremely under the past summer. Not only the persistent heat affected the glaciers. There was also little snow in winter, much of which had already melted by June. After that the glaciers lay unprotected in the full sun for months while heat wave after heat wave tormented the ice. 5.5 percent of the ice mass melted. That amounts to 2.5 to 4 meters of the average ice","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633211","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6f93ab4409a7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:01:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UK","what":"New Vaping Products Duty comes into effect","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New Vaping Products Duty comes into force from 1 October 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New Vaping Products Duty comes into force from 1 October 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/new-vaping-products-duty-comes-into-effect","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5aa65e9bad0a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:01:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Call for bold new ideas to support disabled people and those with health conditions into work","headline":"UK officials asked for fresh ideas to help disabled people and those with health conditions find work","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Businesses, charities and innovators can start bidding for a share of £60 million to help unlock work for the millions of people out of work with a disability or a health condition.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Businesses, charities and innovators can start bidding for a share of £60 million to help unlock work for the millions of people out of work with a disability or a health condition.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/call-for-bold-new-ideas-to-support-disabled-people-and-those-with-health-conditions-into-work","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9e74e7d5fd6e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:01:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GREAT BRITAIN","what":"Applications Open for Scheme to Slash Electricity Bills for Over 10,000 Manufacturers","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"More than 10,000 businesses across Great Britain are a step closer to vital government support to slash their electricity bills, as applications open today for the British Industrial Competitiveness Scheme (BICS).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"More than 10,000 businesses across Great Britain are a step closer to vital government support to slash their electricity bills, as applications open today for the British Industrial Competitiveness Scheme (BICS).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/applications-open-for-scheme-to-slash-electricity-bills-for-over-10000-manufacturers","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"89ef845334f4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T23:01:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENGLAND","what":"No hiding place: new tracking system exposes waste criminals like never before","headline":"New tracking system went live in the United Kingdom to expose waste criminals like never before","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"First step in tracking waste and placing waste criminals under unprecedented scrutiny as new tracking system goes live","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"First step in tracking waste and placing waste criminals under unprecedented scrutiny as new tracking system goes live","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/no-hiding-place-new-tracking-system-exposes-waste-criminals-like-never-before","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d47a06f659cf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:57:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Man accused in plot to attack Texas Capitol building is released on bond","headline":"Police released a man accused of plotting to attack the Texas Capitol","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Authorities said he planned to attack the capitol Thursday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Authorities said he planned to attack the capitol Thursday. He was arrested at his home early Wednesday.","summary":"Authorities said he planned to attack the building on Thursday. He was arrested at his home early Wednesday. He is now free on bond.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/man-accused-plot-attack-texas-capitol-building-released-bond-rcna600820","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/6122088-man-arrested-texas-capitol-threat/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/suspect-arrested-alleged-plot-attack-texas-capitol-officials","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b1e8156ee86c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:46:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Preemptive cybersecurity laws enforced in Japan amid rising threats","headline":"Japan put preemptive cybersecurity laws into force on Thursday to counter rising threats","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Laws enabling preemptive cybersecurity measures aimed at neutralizing hostile servers came into force in Japan on Thursday to addr Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Laws enabling preemptive cybersecurity measures aimed at neutralizing hostile servers came into force in Japan on Thursday to addr Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86832","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"c7a0cccf968d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:35:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Mamdani gets federal security clearance after 9 months as NYC mayor","headline":"New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani received federal security clearance nine months after he took office Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani (D) received federal security clearance Wednesday, nine months after he entered office.","quote":"I have my security clearance now,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani (D) received federal security clearance Wednesday, nine months after he entered office. “I have my security clearance now,” Mamdani told reporters at a Wednesday press conference. With the new clearance, he is able to review classified documents. Before he was issued the credentials, Mamdani was relying on New York…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/state-watch/6121860-mamdani-gets-federal-security-clearance/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ef360789b33b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:35:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMERICAN SAMOA","what":"American Samoa environmental group sues US govt over deep sea mining plans","headline":"An environmental group in American Samoa sued the United States over its deep sea mining plans near the territory","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An environmental group in American Samoa is taking legal action against the United States government over its plans for deep-sea mining near the territory'.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An environmental group in American Samoa is taking legal action against the United States government over its plans for deep-sea mining near the territory'.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/pacific/1666137/american-samoa-environmental-group-sues-us-govt-over-deep-sea-mining-plans","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8c3fa363569f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:35:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"US sanctions 10 over ATM malware scheme tied to Tren de Aragua","headline":"US sanctions 10 Venezuelans over ATM malware scheme in Washington","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) targeted multiple Venezuelan nationals and several companies they control that are part of the effort to launder the money stolen from dozens of ATMs.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) targeted multiple Venezuelan nationals and several companies they control that are part of the effort to launder the money stolen from dozens of ATMs.","summary":"The US hit 10 Venezuelans and some firms they run with sanctions. They took part in a plot to steal cash from dozens of ATMs and wash the money. The Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control named them.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2c","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/us-sanctions-10-atm-jackpotting-tren-de-aragua","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"060291f1d08d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:31:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"UN Disarmament Office Releases Comprehensive Study on Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones","headline":"UN experts released a study on nuclear-weapon-free zones","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs is pleased to announce the release of a Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its aspects (document A/81/293), prepared by the Qualif…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs is pleased to announce the release of a Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its aspects (document A/81/293), prepared by the Qualified Group of Experts as tasked by the General Assembly under resolution 79/241.","summary":"The United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs put out the study on 29 September. A group of experts from around the world wrote it. The group finished the work on 17 July and sent it to member states. It looks at ways to set up more such zones and make existing ones stronger.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2d","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/dc3918.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0ac019532b12","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:27:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"OpenAI’s Greg Brockman Backs Out of Second $25 Million Donation to A.I. Super PAC","headline":"Greg Brockman withdrew his second $25 million donation to the Leading the Future AI super PAC because it had become a distraction for OpenAI","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Greg Brockman, OpenAI’s president and co-founder, said internally that the super PAC, Leading the Future, had become a “distraction” for the A.I.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Greg Brockman, OpenAI’s president and co-founder, said internally that the super PAC, Leading the Future, had become a “distraction” for the A.I. company.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/technology/openai-brockman-super-pac-leading-the-future.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"fff8132db2e5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:25:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PEIZE","what":"Politieactie bij distributiecentrum van drogisterijketen in Peize","headline":"Police action at distribution center of drugstore chain in Peize","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bij een distributiecentrum van drogisterijketen Die Grenze in Peize heeft afgelopen avond een politieactie plaatsgevonden.","quote":"niet zelf, maar wel als derde partij betrokken","quote_en":"not itself, but involved as a third party","context":"Bij een distributiecentrum van drogisterijketen Die Grenze in Peize heeft afgelopen avond een politieactie plaatsgevonden. De actie vond plaats op het industrieterrein van het Drentse dorp. Een woordvoerder van de Landelijke Eenheid van de politie laat aan RTV Drenthe weten dat er niets is aangetroffen. Ook de douane was aanwezig en er werden speurhonden ingezet. In een verklaring laat de keten weten \"niet zelf, maar wel als derde partij betrokken\" te zijn. De keten wil daar verder niets over zeggen. Over wat de aanleiding voor de politieactie was, zijn geen mededelingen gedaan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A police action took place last night at a distribution center of drugstore chain Die Grenze in Peize, on the industrial estate of the Drenthe village. A spokesperson for the National Unit of the police told RTV Drenthe that nothing was found. Customs were also present and sniffer dogs were deployed.","context_en":"A police action took place last night at a distribution center of drugstore chain Die Grenze in Peize, on the industrial estate of the Drenthe village. A spokesperson for the National Unit of the police told RTV Drenthe that nothing was found. Customs were also present and sniffer dogs were deployed.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633210","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b339c71df8c1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:23:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Japan hikes residency fees for foreign nationals","headline":"Japan raised fees for foreign nationals seeking to change or renew their residency status on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan on Thursday hiked fees for foreign nationals seeking to change or renew their residency status, with the cost of permanent r Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan on Thursday hiked fees for foreign nationals seeking to change or renew their residency status, with the cost of permanent r Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/japan-tightens-rules-for-foreigners-wanting-permanent-residency","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/japan-hikes-residency-fees-for-foreign-nationals","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86830","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86833","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"8feb9799c9d7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:22:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Hegseth announces 5 new non-Ivy League partnerships","headline":"Pentagon announced partnerships with five non-Ivy League schools including LSU on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth announced new Pentagon partnerships with five non-Ivy League colleges and universities Wednesday amid his ongoing efforts to distance the military from America’s most prestigious higher…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth announced new Pentagon partnerships with five non-Ivy League colleges and universities Wednesday amid his ongoing efforts to distance the military from America’s most prestigious higher education institutions. “We’re partnering with a new crop of premier higher ed institutions, including Louisiana State University [LSU], Liberty University, Tuskegee University, Mississippi State University and…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/defense/6121743-hegseth-pentagon-partners-non-ivy-colleges/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a08455f8fd76","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:17:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Fed watchdog finds no laws broken in $2.5 billion Fed renovation","headline":"Fed inspector cleared the 2.5 billion dollar Fed building renovation","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Federal Reserve inspector general also did not find fault with features the White House had complained were \"ostentatious\" and not compliant with the approved plans.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Federal Reserve inspector general also did not find fault with features the White House had complained were \"ostentatious\" and not compliant with the approved plans.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2e","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/federal-reserve-renovations-inspector-general-report/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/federal-reserve-renovation-watchdog-report-rcna600656","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/30/fed-powell-ig-building","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2026/09/30/watchdog-finds-fed-mishandled-renovations-that-trump-tried-oust-powell-over/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"2ee1dcd98396","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:16:47.578Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MASSACHUSETTS","what":"Nearly 1,000 children were abused at three Massachusetts dioceses, state probe finds","headline":"A state investigation found nearly 1,000 children were abused at three Massachusetts dioceses","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nearly 1,000 children were abused at three Massachusetts dioceses, state probe finds","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/more-than-270-priests-massachusetts-abused-children-over-decades-probe-finds-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2202555bc41a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:16:26.829Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Google announces Gemini 4 flagship AI model after months of delays","headline":"Google released its Gemini 4 flagship AI model after months of delays","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Google announces Gemini 4 flagship AI model after months of delays","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/legal/litigation/google-announces-gemini-4-flagship-ai-model-after-months-delays-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-gemini-4-argon-nueva-ia-google-enfocada-ciberseguridad-y-programacion-1094074.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/30/google-gemini-4","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aabf3654a100","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:14:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRITISH COLUMBIA","what":"Driver Strikes 4 People Outside a Mall in British Columbia, Killing 2, Police Say","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The accident occurred as hundreds of people were gathering nearby for a National Day of Truth and Reconciliation march near Delta, a city south of Vancouver, the authorities said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The accident occurred as hundreds of people were gathering nearby for a National Day of Truth and Reconciliation march near Delta, a city south of Vancouver, the authorities said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/world/canada/british-columbia-crash-medical-emergency.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"bb2e0f54721c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:14:17.477Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PENNSYLVANIA","what":"Pennsylvania reports fifth measles-associated death as outbreak grows","headline":"Pennsylvania reported its fifth measles death this year as the outbreak grew","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Pennsylvania reports fifth measles-associated death as outbreak grows","summary":"Pennsylvania has had five deaths linked to measles so far in 2026. The state health department said the latest death happened in September. Officials reported more than 200 cases in the outbreak. Most of the sick were not vaccinated.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Measles has circulated in Pennsylvania since at least mid-September when cases passed 700 and four people had already died in the outbreak. State health officials asked the CDC for emergency help that month while public disagreement grew over how to contain the spread. By late September the count reached nearly 900 confirmed infections.\n\nOn September 30 Pennsylvania recorded its fifth measles-associated death. The patient was part of the same outbreak that began in the spring and has remained concentrated in unvaccinated communities in the state.\n\nThe death leaves officials tracking whether the virus will continue to spread through the fall or whether vaccination rates will rise enough to break the chain of transmission.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/healthcare/6121738-pennsylvania-reports-fifth-measles-related-death/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/health/health-news/pennsylvania-measles-death-5th-outbreak-state-cdc-2026-rcna600766","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/pennsylvania-reports-fifth-measles-linked-death-cases-rise-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eb9b7f49b9f4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:13:24.461Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRAZIL","what":"Brazil's Nubank says it is not pursuing deal with Monzo","headline":"Nubank said it is not pursuing a deal with Monzo in Brazil on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Brazil's Nubank says it is not pursuing deal with Monzo","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/brazils-nubank-says-it-is-not-pursuing-deal-with-monzo-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2fbc7c6708bd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:13:05.735Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHILE","what":"Supervisors at BHP Escondida mine in Chile reject offer, paving way for strike","headline":"Supervisors at BHP Escondida mine in Chile rejected an offer and set the stage for a strike on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Supervisors at BHP Escondida mine in Chile reject offer, paving way for strike","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/world-at-work/supervisors-bhps-escondida-mine-chile-reject-offer-paving-way-strike-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eb5747278200","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:12:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ODENSE","what":"Flere beboere evakueret efter lejlighedsbrand i Odense","headline":"Several residents evacuated after apartment fire in Odense","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Flere beboere evakueret efter lejlighedsbrand i Odense","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Several residents were evacuated after an apartment fire in Odense.","context_en":"Several residents were evacuated after an apartment fire in Odense.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/flere-beboere-evakueret-efter-lejlighedsbrand-i-odense","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cace5fa425dd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:08:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Mexico's National Guard debuts chihuahua dog recruit named 'Comando'","headline":"Mexico's National Guard started training a 13-month-old chihuahua named Comando for search and rescue with protective gear and a camera","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 13-month-old small canine is equipped with protective gear and a camera, and is being trained for search-and-rescue missions.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 13-month-old small canine is equipped with protective gear and a camera, and is being trained for search-and-rescue missions.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/cke878yzngd8o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"44bd9d4e10b2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:07:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUBA","what":"Otro feminicidio en Cuba deja a cuatro niñas sin madre","headline":"Another femicide in Cuba leaves four girls without a mother","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rachel García González fue asesinada en su vivienda de Vertientes y el presunto agresor se encuentra detenido","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rachel García González fue asesinada en su vivienda de Vertientes y el presunto agresor se encuentra detenido","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Rachel García González was murdered in her home in Vertientes and the alleged aggressor is in custody.","context_en":"Rachel García González was murdered in her home in Vertientes and the alleged aggressor is in custody.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/feminicidio-cuba-deja-cuatro-ninas_1_1131400.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2fd22ced9170","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:06:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"THURINGIA","what":"Moet de AfD verboden worden? Kwestie voor het eerst in parlement Thüringen besproken","headline":"Should the AfD be banned? Issue discussed for first time in Thuringia parliament","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Vormt de AfD zo'n groot gevaar voor Duitsland dat de partij verboden moet worden?","quote":"De partij is zo ver geradicaliseerd, dat het in de traditie van nationaalsocialisme opereert","quote_en":"The party has radicalized so far that it operates in the tradition of National Socialism","context":"Vormt de AfD zo'n groot gevaar voor Duitsland dat de partij verboden moet worden? Die vraag werd tot middernacht besproken in het deelstaatparlement van Thüringen. Voor het eerst werd in een Duits parlement een hoorzitting over dit thema gehouden. Zowel voor- als tegenstanders kwamen aan bod, met deels emotionele bijdragen. \"De partij is zo ver geradicaliseerd, dat het in de traditie van nationaalsocialisme opereert\", zei jurist Hendrik Cremer, die opriep tot een verbod. \"Er kan een moment komen dat het te laat is.\" AfD-advocaat Christian Conrad sprak daarentegen van een politieke heksenjacht.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The question of whether the AfD poses such a great danger to Germany that the party must be banned was debated until midnight in the state parliament of Thuringia. For the first time, a German parliament held a hearing on this topic. Both supporters and opponents were heard, with partly emotional contributions.","context_en":"The question of whether the AfD poses such a great danger to Germany that the party must be banned was debated until midnight in the state parliament of Thuringia. For the first time, a German parliament held a hearing on this topic. Both supporters and opponents were heard, with partly emotional contributions.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633209","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4845b713545c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:05:35.463Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Mattel chief Kreiz to step down, join Paramount Skydance as co-CEO","headline":"Mattel CEO Ynon Kreiz will step down to become co-CEO of Paramount Skydance on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Mattel chief Kreiz to step down, join Paramount Skydance as co-CEO","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/legal/transactional/mattel-names-roger-lynch-ceo-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6b3c16b299b2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:03:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Federal Judge Orders Bureau of Prisons to Restore Union Protections","headline":"Judge Vernon D Oliver ordered the Bureau of Prisons to restore union protections","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In his ruling, Judge Vernon D.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In his ruling, Judge Vernon D. Oliver cited public statements from the bureau’s director that hurt the agency’s case in court.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/us/politics/bureau-prisons-union-contract.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"4fe04d12d1da","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:02:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Biden Afghan migrant program hit with 40% vetting failure rate: 'Alarming'","headline":"Homeland Security found vetting errors in 40 percent of Afghan asylum cases under Operation Allies Welcome","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Homeland Security inspector general report found documentation or vetting errors in 40% of Afghan asylum applications reviewed under Operation Allies Welcome, raising concerns.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Homeland Security inspector general report found documentation or vetting errors in 40% of Afghan asylum applications reviewed under Operation Allies Welcome, raising concerns.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/biden-afghan-migrant-program-hit-vetting-failure-rate-alarming","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"17918e5c7daa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T22:01:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEPAL","what":"Trekkers helicoptered off mountains as more deadly landslides hit Nepal","headline":"Landslides and heavy rain killed around 30 people in Nepal a month after deadly floods, as helicopters rescued trekkers from the mountains","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A month after mass catastrophic flooding, around 30 people have died in landslides and heavy rain.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A month after mass catastrophic flooding, around 30 people have died in landslides and heavy rain.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c607l4l3vn0eo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4bd9039fcea5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:57:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALASKA","what":"Trump puts Sullivan at center stage during Alaska pipeline reveal","headline":"President Trump spotlighted Sen Dan Sullivan when he announced a 54 billion dollar Alaska natural gas export project on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Trump put Sen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Trump put Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) in the spotlight Wednesday as he announced a $54 billion investment in a project to export natural gas from Alaska. The project is part of a $200 billion investment from South Korea into the U.S. for projects including the liquefied natural gas (LNG) project, eight nuclear power plants…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6121739-trump-praises-senator-dan-sullivan/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fa2d4434231e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:52:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump defends government-funded ad campaigns: ‘I’m not promoting a candidate’","headline":"Trump defended his government-funded ad campaigns in Washington on Wednesday and said he was not promoting a candidate","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Trump defended his government-funded ad campaigns, arguing Wednesday that he is not promoting a particular candidate.","quote":"I’m not running for office, first of all,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Trump defended his government-funded ad campaigns, arguing Wednesday that he is not promoting a particular candidate. “I’m not running for office, first of all,” Trump told reporters. “When I’m talking about making America great, making our country great, that’s a countrywide ad. That’s an ad for the spirit of our country.” “Now, if somebody…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6121727-trump-government-ads-white-house/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/trump-administration/fcc-brendan-carr-says-government-funded-trump-ads-dont-raise-red-flags-rcna600724","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aae7aff14949","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:51:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Live: ASX sinks to four-month low, $50b wiped off share market","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ABC News (Australia) · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$undefined","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-10-01/asx-markets-business-news-live-updates-thursday-1-october/107204216","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dd8cdbbab993","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:51:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENUGU","what":"Group wants Mbah to intervene over removal of APC executives","headline":"A group in Enugu, Nigeria, called on Governor Mbah to intervene in the removal of APC executives on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The group, under the aegis of G-30 Enugu North Senatorial Zone, made the appeal in a statement signed by Barth Ugwoke, a former APC director of Research, Strategy and Intelligence Matters on Wednesday in Enugu.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The group, under the aegis of G-30 Enugu North Senatorial Zone, made the appeal in a statement signed by Barth Ugwoke, a former APC director of Research, Strategy and Intelligence Matters on Wednesday in Enugu.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/913676-group-wants-mbah-to-intervene-over-removal-of-apc-executives.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a3b3213d354e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:50:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Watchdog group sues DHS for records to back claims that 250,000 noncitizens are registered to vote","headline":"American Oversight sued DHS on Wednesday for records to support Markwayne Mullin's claim that 250,000 noncitizens registered to vote in four states","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The watchdog group American Oversight sued the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on Wednesday after the agency failed to turn over records to support DHS Secretary Markwayne Mullin’s claim that 250,000 non-U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The watchdog group American Oversight sued the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on Wednesday after the agency failed to turn over records to support DHS Secretary Markwayne Mullin’s claim that 250,000 non-U.S. citizens had registered to vote across four states. The group had made Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests asking the department for records…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6121740-markwayne-mullin-voter-registration-american-oversight/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7fefb881f71d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:50:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Democrats block data center bill in Senate","headline":"Senate Democrats blocked the Ratepayer Protection Act on data center electricity costs in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"{beacon} Technology Technology The Big Story Democrats block data center bill in Senate Senate Democrats blocked a bill that seeks to address data center electricity costs, calling it ineffective and “toothless.” Thou…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"{beacon} Technology Technology The Big Story Democrats block data center bill in Senate Senate Democrats blocked a bill that seeks to address data center electricity costs, calling it ineffective and “toothless.” Though the legislation passed the House with significant bipartisan support. © Greg Nash Democrats did not provide the Ratepayer Protection Act with the 60…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/6121735-senate-blocks-data-center-bill-newsletter/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a8d8fa1c4c8f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:47:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Russian attack sets café on fire in Kyiv","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Russian attack caused a fire at a café on the ground floor of a residential building in Kyiv's Solomianskyi district, while a warehouse also caught fire in the Obolonskyi district.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Russian attack caused a fire at a café on the ground floor of a residential building in Kyiv's Solomianskyi district, while a warehouse also caught fire in the Obolonskyi district.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055889/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/10/01/8055907/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055875/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8cc2db52e4f2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:40:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ABUJA","what":"2027: Makinde appoints ex-minister as campaign DG","headline":"In 2027 Makinde named a former minister to direct his campaign in Nigeria and named directors for its departments","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Mr Makinde also announced directors to oversee various campaign departments.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Mr Makinde also announced directors to oversee various campaign departments.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/913674-2027-makinde-appoints-ex-minister-as-campaign-dg.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"16db7d03973e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:39:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"Mother charged over death of three-year-old son in Devonport to keep name secret until trial","headline":"A 33-year-old mother in Devonport, New Zealand, will keep her name secret until her trial next year after she pleaded not guilty to killing her three-year-old son in July","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 33-year-old pleaded not guilty in July and will go to trial next year.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 33-year-old pleaded not guilty in July and will go to trial next year.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1667874/mother-charged-over-death-of-three-year-old-son-in-devonport-to-keep-name-secret-until-trial","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e4501516dd6b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:38:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEL AVIV","what":"Flydubai passenger describes putting attacker in chokehold after cockpit stabbing","headline":"A pilot stabbed his co-pilot on a Flydubai flight to Israel before passengers tackled him","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Other passengers on the Israel-bound flight described the \"terrifying\" moment the plane dropped.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Other passengers on the Israel-bound flight described the \"terrifying\" moment the plane dropped.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.636},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$2f","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/world/middle-east/flight-dubai-tel-aviv-diverted-emergency-alert-rcna600628","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910155","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/09/30/flydubai-flight-tel-aviv-diverted-saudi-arabia-after-onboard-altercation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cmx2z92xx57no?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cqjdv7pmj9dno?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/middle-east/20261001-live-flydubai-suspends-flights-to-and-from-israel-after-pilot-attack","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/flydubai-pilot-investigated-over-possible-attempt-to-crash-tel-aviv-bound-flight/a-79484761?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/world/israel-uae-flydubai-plane-diversion-6420786","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/middle-east/diverted-flydubai-flight-israel-was-not-hijacking-incident-israeli-prime-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/dubai-to-tel-aviv-flight-signals-emergency/107213638","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633097","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/utrikes/larm-fran-passagerarplan-pa-vag-mot-israel","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/media-israele-emergenza-su-volo-da-dubai-a-tel-aviv-decollati-jet-israeliani_19847369-5d7a-4ea3-afb3-ae7f8be53348.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c47a10ae44a7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:31:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"AI safety fears put OpenAI and Anthropic in the FTC's crosshairs","headline":"The Federal Trade Commission opened an investigation into OpenAI and Anthropic over potential safety risks from their AI products on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Federal Trade Commission is investigating OpenAI, Anthropic and other AI companies over potential safety risks posed by their products, an agency spokesperson told Axios Wednesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Federal Trade Commission is investigating OpenAI, Anthropic and other AI companies over potential safety risks posed by their products, an agency spokesperson told Axios Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/30/ftc-openai-anthropic-ai-safety-investigation","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8686e2489be1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:31:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED KINGDOM","what":"UK Believes Iran Played a Part in RAF Fairford Air Base Incident, Burnham Says","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The British prime minister, Andy Burnham, said there were “strong indications” Iran played a part in the events at R.A.F.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The British prime minister, Andy Burnham, said there were “strong indications” Iran played a part in the events at R.A.F. Fairford on Sunday, without providing details why.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/world/europe/uk-iran-raf-fairford-burnham.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"72267b690020","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:30:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"South Korea to invest up to $200B in Alaska LNG pipeline, US power plants, Trump announces","headline":"South Korea agreed to invest up to 200 billion dollars in an Alaska gas pipeline, a Texas plant and eight US nuclear stations, Trump said Wednesday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"South Korea’s government will invest up to $200 billion in U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"South Korea’s government will invest up to $200 billion in U.S. energy infrastructure, including a natural gas pipeline in Alaska, President Trump announced Wednesday. The investment also includes a natural gas plant in Texas and eight new nuclear power plants across the country, Trump said during remarks in the Oval Office. Trump said the deal…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$30","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/6121683-south-korea-alaska-lng-pipeline-texas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/government/white-house/trump-announces-south-korea-has-agreed-200-billion-investments-us?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e4d66dbfec9c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:30:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CAMBRIDGESHIRE","what":"£4.4 million of vital funding for victims in Cambridgeshire","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Thousands of victim-survivors across Cambridgeshire will benefit from £4.4 million in Government funding, providing mentoring, counselling and other support services over the next two years.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Thousands of victim-survivors across Cambridgeshire will benefit from £4.4 million in Government funding, providing mentoring, counselling and other support services over the next two years.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/44-million-of-vital-funding-for-victims-in-cambridgeshire","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1db2576788a6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:29:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Paul blocks push to unanimously pass Kids Online Safety Act","headline":"Sen. Rand Paul blocked a push in Washington on Wednesday to pass the Kids Online Safety Act by unanimous consent","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Sen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) blocked an effort from Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) on Wednesday to pass by unanimous consent the Kids Online Safety Act (KOSA), a long-sought bill that intends to protect kids in the digital space. KOSA, which aims to hold accountable social media companies for the alleged harms their…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/technology/6121648-paul-blocks-kosa-kids-safety-bill/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"655e5cd01e1c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:25:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Hegseth Delivers 'State of the Force' Address, Outlines Series of New Initiatives","headline":"Pete Hegseth gave a State of the Force speech in Washington and announced six new initiatives for the War Department","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Secretary of War Pete Hegseth delivered a speech on the status of the military, during which he announced six new initiatives for the War Department.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Secretary of War Pete Hegseth delivered a speech on the status of the military, during which he announced six new initiatives for the War Department.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4615637/hegseth-delivers-state-of-the-force-address-outlines-series-of-new-initiatives/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"90c82410526a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:16:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump mails letter and $500 check to 950K Americans with Obamacare","headline":"Trump sent a letter and a 500-dollar check to 950000 Americans in the Obamacare program","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Trump wrote: \"You have paid into this flawed System, and now you are finally getting something back.\"","quote":"You have paid into this flawed System, and now you are finally getting something back.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Trump wrote: \"You have paid into this flawed System, and now you are finally getting something back.\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/business/trump-mails-letter-and-500-check-to-950k-americans-with-obamacare/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bb92a7454feb","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:11:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"NASA Adds New Science Investigations for Moon Base","headline":"NASA chose three new science payloads to study the Moon and prepare for a lunar base, Sept. 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Editor’s note: This release was updated on Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Editor’s note: This release was updated on Sept. 30, 2026, to correct the name of the DISCO payload. NASA selected three new scientific investigations and their payload suites to advance our knowledge of the Moon and help pave the way for building humanity’s first lunar outpost, Moon Base. The suite of science instruments and technologies","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-adds-new-science-investigations-for-moon-base/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6a0c0820c605","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T21:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALBERTA","what":"Thursday, October 1, 2026","headline":"Prime Minister to announce next step on major infrastructure project in Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada on October 1, 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Note: All times local Fort McMurray, Alberta 9:00 a.m.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Note: All times local Fort McMurray, Alberta 9:00 a.m. The Prime Minister will announce the next step to accelerate a major infrastructure project. He will be joined by the Premier of Alberta, Danielle Smith. Notes for media: Open coverage Media wishing to cover the event are asked to contact media@pmo-cpm.gc.ca to confirm their attendance. Details on how to participate will be provided upon registration. Media are asked to arrive no later than 8:15 a.m.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/media-advisories/2026/09/30/thursday-october-1-2026","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f80f65b07f36","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:59:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITURI","what":"Prison de Mahagi: les conditions de détention s’ameliore avec l’appui de la MONUSCO","headline":"Mahagi Prison: detention conditions improve with MONUSCO support","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Les conditions de détention à la prison centrale de Mahagi (Ituri) connaissent depuis peu une amélioration, grâce à la réhabilitation partielle de cette maison carcérale par la MONUSCO.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Les conditions de détention à la prison centrale de Mahagi (Ituri) connaissent depuis peu une amélioration, grâce à la réhabilitation partielle de cette maison carcérale par la MONUSCO. Installations sanitaires, accès à l’eau, éclairage solaire et prise en charge médicale : plusieurs infrastructures ont été aménagées avec l’appui de la Mission onuisienne, pour un coût estimé à 49 000 dollars américains.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Detention conditions at the central prison of Mahagi (Ituri) have recently seen an improvement thanks to the partial rehabilitation of the prison by MONUSCO.","context_en":"Detention conditions at the central prison of Mahagi (Ituri) have recently seen an improvement thanks to the partial rehabilitation of the prison by MONUSCO.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/justice/prison-de-mahagi-les-conditions-de-detention-sameliore-avec-lappui-de","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"79f879ba064c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:54:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Elon Musk lands new Trump administration role shaping future of American warfare","headline":"The Pentagon named Elon Musk co-leader with Palmer Luckey and Newt Gingrich of Project Meridian to map future warfare domains and military technologies in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Elon Musk will co-lead Project Meridian with Palmer Luckey and Newt Gingrich to map future warfare domains and military technologies for the Pentagon.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Elon Musk will co-lead Project Meridian with Palmer Luckey and Newt Gingrich to map future warfare domains and military technologies for the Pentagon.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/elon-musk-lands-new-trump-admin-role-shaping-future-american-warfare","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/defense/6121108-pete-hegseth-pentagon-project-meridian-warfare-future/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/30/pentagon-hegseth-musk-gingrich-anduril","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0d6d382b3d9a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:50:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PENNSYLVANIA","what":"Weitzman Museum in Philadelphia gets $47,000 from state historical commission","headline":"Pennsylvania historical commission gave the Weitzman Museum in Philadelphia 47000 dollars","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“This support helps ensure that the American Jewish experience is recognized for what it has always been: an essential part of the American story,” Jacqueline S.","quote":"This support helps ensure that the American Jewish experience is recognized for what it has always been: an essential part of the American story,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“This support helps ensure that the American Jewish experience is recognized for what it has always been: an essential part of the American story,” Jacqueline S. Glodstein at the Weitzman told JNS.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/weitzman-museum-in-philadelphia-gets-47-000-from-state-historical-commission","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ee6aef7217ad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:49:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALBERTA","what":"‘Separation will not solve problems’: Poilievre speaks in Alberta ahead of referendum","headline":"Poilievre told Alberta separatists in Canada that separation will not solve their problems with the federal Liberal government","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Federal Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre, who is from Alberta, said separatists have a problem with the federal Liberal government — not with Canada.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Federal Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre, who is from Alberta, said separatists have a problem with the federal Liberal government — not with Canada.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:11000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12083159/alberta-referendum-pierre-poilievre-separatism/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e8b85063f08","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:41:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OHIO","what":"NASA Awards Contract to Develop 5G Communications for Moon","headline":"NASA gave Modulate Space a 38 million dollar contract for 5G on the Moon","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA has awarded Modulate Space Corporation a contract to develop key elements of a 5G communications system for use on the lunar surface with built-in Wi-Fi 6, for NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Cleveland.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA has awarded Modulate Space Corporation a contract to develop key elements of a 5G communications system for use on the lunar surface with built-in Wi-Fi 6, for NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Cleveland. This accelerated effort is organized into two primary work areas that together will develop a scalable, standards-based communications capability designed to","summary":"NASA gave Modulate Space Corporation a contract worth about 38 million dollars. The work will build parts of a 5G system with Wi-Fi 6 for use on the lunar surface. It is for NASA’s Glenn Research Center in Cleveland. The two parts of the job run through early 2028 and late 2028.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$31","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-awards-contract-to-develop-5g-communications-for-moon/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8633e2ee810a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:32:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Election denier Kurt Olsen steps down from \"grand conspiracy\" case","headline":"Kurt Olsen left the grand conspiracy case he brought against the 2020 election and told the Justice Department in an email on Monday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Olsen notified the Justice Department that he was departing the case in an email Monday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Olsen notified the Justice Department that he was departing the case in an email Monday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/election-denier-kurt-olsen-grand-conspiracy-case/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"518a9f59a07e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:30:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALBERTA","what":"Young Canadians less hopeful about future of democracy: Statistics Canada","headline":"Young Canadians felt less hopeful about the future of democracy, Statistics Canada reported","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Prairie provinces, including Alberta, had the highest percentage of respondents who felt no hope at all about democracy while British Columbia led with those who felt very hopeful.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Prairie provinces, including Alberta, had the highest percentage of respondents who felt no hope at all about democracy while British Columbia led with those who felt very hopeful.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12083160/young-canadians-democracy-statistics-canada/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6f1297b43c65","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:28:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TANZANIA","what":"Tanzania removes Nigeria from referral visa category","headline":"Tanzania removed Nigeria from its referral visa category after it changed its regulations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The department said it is officially removing Nigeria from this category following amendments to its regulations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The department said it is officially removing Nigeria from this category following amendments to its regulations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/foreign/913655-tanzania-removes-nigeria-from-referral-visa-category.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4d3ef697a807","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:26:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH CAROLINA","what":"South Carolina mom accused of knife attack on young children; 6-year-old may lose arm: sheriff's office","headline":"South Carolina mother Taylor Gosnell stabbed her two young children about 50 times in their home and her 6-year-old son may lose an arm","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taylor Gosnell allegedly stabbed her two children approximately 50 times in their South Carolina home before her 6-year-old called his grandmother.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taylor Gosnell allegedly stabbed her two children approximately 50 times in their South Carolina home before her 6-year-old called his grandmother.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/south-carolina-mom-accused-knife-attack-young-children-6-year-old-may-lose-arm-sheriffs-office","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a719c28c37db","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:20:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"Hegseth accuses media of treason in pugnacious annual address","headline":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth accused US media of making Iranian state media look reasonable in a speech at a Marine Corps base in Virginia on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth took aim at the U.S.","quote":"Our so-called press makes Iranian state media look reasonable.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth took aim at the U.S. media during a speech at a Marine Corps base in Virginia on Wednesday, saying: \"Our so-called press makes Iranian state media look reasonable.\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/30/pete-hegseth-pentagon-media-treason","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"182f80d14f4f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:19:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"InfraCredit secures IFC’s $50 million subordinated debt for local-currency infrastructure finance","headline":"IFC gave InfraCredit 50 million dollars in subordinated debt for local currency infrastructure loans in Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"IFC is a member of the World Bank Group and the world's largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"IFC is a member of the World Bank Group and the world's largest global development institution focused on the private sector in emerging markets.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/business/business-news/913650-infracredit-secures-ifcs-50-million-subordinated-debt-for-local-currency-infrastructure-finance.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"138484c2f21d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:16:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pentagon’s Hegseth says 20 percent of US generals, admirals cut, ‘no fatties, no trannies’","headline":"Pete Hegseth cut 20 percent of US generals and admirals","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said Wednesday that his department had cut 20 percent of US admirals, generals and officers who did not fit his vision.","quote":"Simple translation of that: no fatties, no trannies, no beardos, no weirdos, no wimps, no radicals. Just warriors – just tough, ready, committed troops,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said Wednesday that his department had cut 20 percent of US admirals, generals and officers who did not fit his vision. \"Simple translation of that: no fatties, no trannies, no beardos, no weirdos, no wimps, no radicals. Just warriors – just tough, ready, committed troops,\" he said.","summary":"Pete Hegseth is the US defense secretary. He said on Wednesday that his department cut 20 percent of generals, admirals, and other officers. He said the cuts removed people who did not fit his vision for the military. He listed them as no fatties, no trannies, no beardos, no weirdos, no wimps, and no radicals. He wants only tough, ready troops.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The Defense Department has operated under Title 10 of the US Code, which gives the secretary of defense authority to organize, train and equip the armed forces and to set standards for active-duty officers. That structure has stood since the National Security Act of 1947 created the modern Pentagon. The secretary appoints and removes general and flag officers subject to Senate confirmation for the highest ranks.\n\nOn September 30, 2026, Secretary Pete Hegseth announced that the department had removed 20 percent of US generals, admirals and senior officers. He described the cut as the removal of those who did not meet his stated standard for service members and the retention of those who did.\n\nThe force structure now rests on the officers who remain after the reduction. The next operational questions are which specific billets were eliminated, how the remaining command slots will be filled, and whether the Senate will confirm the new slate of generals and admirals the secretary puts forward.","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/americas/20260930-pentagon-s-hegseth-says-20-pct-of-us-generals-admirals-cut-no-fatties-no-trannies","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/hegseth-20-cut-generals-and-admirals-military-pentagon/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8f5ba1011f48","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T20:05:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Trump Pentagon launches competition for America's next great military base","headline":"The Trump Pentagon opened a contest to pick the site for the next major US military base based on land, housing, schools, community backing and regulatory help","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The winning state for the base site will be selected through a merit-based competition based on land, housing, schools, community support and regulatory cooperation.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The winning state for the base site will be selected through a merit-based competition based on land, housing, schools, community support and regulatory cooperation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-pentagon-launches-competition-americas-next-great-military-base","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bc4d336a605f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T19:54:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Hackers Flink kregen, ondanks ultimatum, nog geen geld van slachtoffers","headline":"Hackers of Flink have received no money from victims despite ultimatum","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De cybercriminelen die vorige week inbraken bij boodschappenbezorger Flink, hebben nog niets verdiend met hun hack.","quote":"Je ontvangt deze e-mail omdat we jouw persoonlijke informatie via een hack van Flink hebben gestolen","quote_en":"You are receiving this email because we stole your personal information through a hack of Flink","context":"De cybercriminelen die vorige week inbraken bij boodschappenbezorger Flink, hebben nog niets verdiend met hun hack. De hackers benaderden medewerkers en klanten met een ultimatum: als ze niet betalen, worden hun gegevens gepubliceerd. Daar is nog niemand op ingegaan. RTL Nieuws kreeg van 32 Nederlandse Flink-klanten de afpersingsmail die de hackers hadden gestuurd. \"Je ontvangt deze e-mail omdat we jouw persoonlijke informatie via een hack van Flink hebben gestolen\", schreven de criminelen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The cybercriminals who broke into grocery delivery company Flink last week have earned nothing from their hack. The hackers approached employees and customers with an ultimatum: if they do not pay, their data will be published. No one has responded to it yet.","context_en":"The cybercriminals who broke into grocery delivery company Flink last week have earned nothing from their hack. The hackers approached employees and customers with an ultimatum: if they do not pay, their data will be published. No one has responded to it yet.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633196","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c3a70bbe1f2e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T19:43:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Einde aan Fabers grenscontroles, maar bevoegdheden marechaussee worden ruimer","headline":"End to Faber's border checks, but Marechaussee powers to be expanded","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Vanaf morgen stopt de Koninklijke Marechaussee (KMar) met de binnengrenscontroles zoals die waren ingesteld door toenmalig PVV-minister Faber van Asiel en Migratie.","quote":"Vanaf morgen stopt de Koninklijke Marechaussee (KMar) met de binnengrenscontroles zoals die waren ingesteld door toenmalig PVV-minister Faber van Asiel en Migratie.","quote_en":"From tomorrow the Royal Marechaussee (KMar) will stop the internal border controls introduced by then PVV minister Faber of Asylum and Migration.","context":"Vanaf morgen stopt de Koninklijke Marechaussee (KMar) met de binnengrenscontroles zoals die waren ingesteld door toenmalig PVV-minister Faber van Asiel en Migratie. Helemaal terug naar de situatie van vóór die controles gaat de marechaussee niet, zo worden in de grensstreek de regels voor het reguliere toezicht verruimd. De strengere controles van Faber gingen op 9 december 2024 in en waren oorspronkelijk voor 6 maanden bedoeld, maar werden meerdere keren verlengd . Ze werden ingevoerd om illegale migratie tegen te gaan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"From tomorrow the Royal Marechaussee (KMar) will stop the internal border controls introduced by then PVV minister Faber of Asylum and Migration. The service will not fully revert to the pre-control situation; rules for regular supervision in the border region will instead be relaxed. Faber's stricter controls began on 9 December 2024, were originally intended to last six months and were extended","context_en":"From tomorrow the Royal Marechaussee (KMar) will stop the internal border controls introduced by then PVV minister Faber of Asylum and Migration. The service will not fully revert to the pre-control situation; rules for regular supervision in the border region will instead be relaxed. Faber's stricter controls began on 9 December 2024, were originally intended to last six months and were extended","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633195","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a0d60770c992","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T19:35:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"After reports on suicide deaths, Pentagon puts Cyber Command on notice","headline":"Pentagon told US Cyber Command to act after reports of a cluster of suicide deaths on August 31","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An August 31 memo obtained by Recorded Future News shows that the Pentagon's assistant secretary for cyber policy made specific demands of U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An August 31 memo obtained by Recorded Future News shows that the Pentagon's assistant secretary for cyber policy made specific demands of U.S. Cyber Command leadership after reports of a cluster of suicide deaths.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/cyber-command-suicide-deaths-pentagon-memo","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"33ce1e352434","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T19:21:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Blackburn sues Jack Smith for obtaining her phone records","headline":"Senator Marsha Blackburn sued Jack Smith for obtaining her phone records in Washington on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Republican senator brought the suit one day after the former special counsel testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Republican senator brought the suit one day after the former special counsel testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/news/2026/09/30/blackburn-sues-jack-smith-for-obtaining-her-phone-records-01100441","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/30/us/politics/jack-smith-lawsuit-trump-blackburn.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"4200d75cebe7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T19:10:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Verdriet om overlijden 'lieve, grappige Paulien': 'Wat zul je gemist worden'","headline":"Grief over death of 'sweet, funny Paulien': 'How you will be missed'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"Dit slaat in als een bom\", zegt Volkskrant-hoofdredacteur Pieter Klok over het overlijden van schrijfster, cabaretière, taalkundige en columnist Paulien Cornelisse.","quote":"Dit slaat in als een bom","quote_en":"This hits like a bomb","context":"\"Dit slaat in als een bom\", zegt Volkskrant-hoofdredacteur Pieter Klok over het overlijden van schrijfster, cabaretière, taalkundige en columnist Paulien Cornelisse. Ze overleed vandaag op 50-jarige leeftijd aan de gevolgen van kanker. De auteur van onder meer Taal is zeg maar echt mijn ding en D e verwarde cavia was geliefd bij lezers, collega's, familie en vrienden en mensen die in aanraking kwamen met haar werk of haarzelf, is te horen en lezen in de reacties op haar overlijden. Klok noemt haar overlijden \"een verlies voor heel Nederland\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Volkskrant editor-in-chief Pieter Klok says the death of writer, cabaret artist, linguist and columnist Paulien Cornelisse 'hits like a bomb'. She died today at the age of 50 from cancer. The author of books including Taal is zeg maar echt mijn ding and De verwarde cavia was loved by readers, colleagues, family, friends and people who encountered her work or herself, according to the reactions to","context_en":"Volkskrant editor-in-chief Pieter Klok says the death of writer, cabaret artist, linguist and columnist Paulien Cornelisse 'hits like a bomb'. She died today at the age of 50 from cancer. The author of books including Taal is zeg maar echt mijn ding and De verwarde cavia was loved by readers, colleagues, family, friends and people who encountered her work or herself, according to the reactions to","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633190","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9682b1c8cf98","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:56:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MOLDOVA","what":"Drone breaches Moldovan airspace for third time in one day","headline":"Ukraine sent a drone into Moldova for the third time on 30 September and closed central airspace","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Moldova's Defence Ministry says a drone entered the country's airspace from Ukraine for the third time on 30 September, prompting a temporary closure of airspace in central Moldova.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Moldova's Defence Ministry says a drone entered the country's airspace from Ukraine for the third time on 30 September, prompting a temporary closure of airspace in central Moldova.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055879/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5220cb58a861","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:52:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CURAÇAO","what":"Curaçao weigerde vlucht Venezolaanse oppositieleider na 'verzoek van hogerhand'","headline":"Curaçao refused flight by Venezuelan opposition leader after 'request from higher up'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Curaçaose luchtvaartautoriteit CCAA heeft vorige week een privévliegtuig geweigerd waarmee de Venezolaanse oppositieleider María Corina Machado vanuit Panama naar Curaçao wilde reizen.","quote":"verzoek van hogerhand","quote_en":"request from higher up","context":"De Curaçaose luchtvaartautoriteit CCAA heeft vorige week een privévliegtuig geweigerd waarmee de Venezolaanse oppositieleider María Corina Machado vanuit Panama naar Curaçao wilde reizen. De beslissing werd genomen na een \"verzoek van hogerhand\", zegt CCAA-directeur Peter Steinmetz tegen de NOS. Wie dat verzoek deed, daar blijven betrokkenen vaag over. Ook navraag bij de Curaçaose regering levert daarover geen duidelijkheid op. Minister Charles Cooper zegt dat het verzoek in ieder geval niet van hem kwam. Premier Gilmar Pisas wil geen commentaar geven.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Curaçao aviation authority CCAA refused a private plane last week that was to bring Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado from Panama to Curaçao. The decision was taken after a 'request from higher up', CCAA director Peter Steinmetz told NOS. Those involved remain vague about who made the request. The Curaçao government also provided no clarity. Minister Charles Cooper said the","context_en":"The Curaçao aviation authority CCAA refused a private plane last week that was to bring Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado from Panama to Curaçao. The decision was taken after a 'request from higher up', CCAA director Peter Steinmetz told NOS. Those involved remain vague about who made the request. The Curaçao government also provided no clarity. Minister Charles Cooper said the","lang":"nl","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633188","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8ba788aab3fd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:51:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MALMÖ","what":"Malmö FF klart för åttondelsfinal i Europa Cup","headline":"Malmö FF advances to Europa Cup round of 16","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Malmö FF är för första gången klart för åttondelsfinal i Europa Cup.","quote":"Vinsten var riktigt skön","quote_en":"The win felt really good","context":"Malmö FF är för första gången klart för åttondelsfinal i Europa Cup. Det efter en promenadseger mot St. Pölten. – Vinsten var riktigt skön, säger Zecira Musovic till SVT Sport.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Malmö FF has for the first time qualified for the Europa Cup round of 16 after a comfortable victory against St. Pölten.","context_en":"Malmö FF has for the first time qualified for the Europa Cup round of 16 after a comfortable victory against St. Pölten.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/sport/fotboll/malmo-ff-klart-for-attondelsfinal-i-europa-cup","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"082f273c1f10","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:49:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Italien forlænger igen styrket grænsekontrol af rejsende fra Spanien","headline":"Italy extends enhanced border control on travelers from Spain again","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Italien forlænger igen styrket grænsekontrol af rejsende fra Spanien","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Italy is extending enhanced border control on travelers from Spain again.","context_en":"Italy is extending enhanced border control on travelers from Spain again.","lang":"da","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/italien-forlaenger-igen-styrket-graensekontrol-af-rejsende-fra-spanien","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d0ea45af411b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:48:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KINSHASA","what":"RDC : les médias invités à contribuer à une information claire et vérifiée sur le recensement général","headline":"DRC: media invited to contribute to clear and verified information on the general census","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Le ministre d’État et ministre chargé du Plan et de la Coordination de l’Aide au Développement, Guylain Nyembo et son homologue de la Communication et Médias, Patrick Muyaya, ont réuni, mercredi 30 septembre 2026 à Ki…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Le ministre d’État et ministre chargé du Plan et de la Coordination de l’Aide au Développement, Guylain Nyembo et son homologue de la Communication et Médias, Patrick Muyaya, ont réuni, mercredi 30 septembre 2026 à Kinshasa, les responsables de presse autour d’un dîner consacré au rôle des médias dans l’accompagnement du deuxième Recensement général de la population et de l’habitat (RGPH‑2).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Minister of State and Minister in charge of Planning and Coordination of Development Aid, Guylain Nyembo, and his counterpart from Communication and Media, Patrick Muyaya, brought together press officials on Wednesday 30 September 2026 in Kinshasa for a dinner dedicated to the role of the media in supporting the second General Census of Population and Housing (RGPH-2).","context_en":"The Minister of State and Minister in charge of Planning and Coordination of Development Aid, Guylain Nyembo, and his counterpart from Communication and Media, Patrick Muyaya, brought together press officials on Wednesday 30 September 2026 in Kinshasa for a dinner dedicated to the role of the media in supporting the second General Census of Population and Housing (RGPH-2).","lang":"fr","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/politique/rdc-les-medias-invites-contribuer-une-information-claire-et-verifiee","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4e1e71f800ed","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:46:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Il Presidente Meloni a \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro”","headline":"Prime Minister Meloni joins 'Oltre le Radici: the Northeast model between Europe, business and future'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, ha partecipato in videocollegamento all'evento, organizzato da Il Gazzettino, \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro”.","quote":"ha partecipato in videocollegamento all'evento, organizzato da Il Gazzettino, \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro","quote_en":"took part by videoconference in the event organized by Il Gazzettino titled 'Oltre le Radici: the Northeast model between Europe, business and future","context":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, ha partecipato in videocollegamento all'evento, organizzato da Il Gazzettino, \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro”. Lingua Italiano Immagini Album : Palazzo Chigi, 30/09/2026 - Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, ha partecipato in videocollegamento all'evento, organizzato da Il Gazzettino, \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro”. Immagine in Evidenza: Fonte: Il Presidente del Consiglio Tipologia Media: Foto Governo: Meloni Il Presidente Meloni all'evento \"Oltre le Radici: il modello Nordest tra Europa, impresa e futuro”","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni took part by videoconference in the event organized by Il Gazzettino titled 'Oltre le Radici: the Northeast model between Europe, business and future'.","context_en":"Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni took part by videoconference in the event organized by Il Gazzettino titled 'Oltre le Radici: the Northeast model between Europe, business and future'.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/media/il-presidente-meloni-oltre-le-radici-il-modello-nordest-tra-europa-impresa-e-futuro/32701","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/il-presidente-meloni-oltre-le-radici-il-modello-nordest-tra-europa-impresa-e-futuro/32700","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b18bd7138b45","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:38:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"NASA, International Partners Advance Work on Space Crops","headline":"NASA, Canada and Germany agreed to prepare an Earth-based test facility for growing crops on the Moon","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA, CSA (Canadian Space Agency), and the German Aerospace Center signed a joint statement of intent to begin coordinated, preparatory work toward an Earth-based demonstrator to learn how to grow crops on the Moon.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA, CSA (Canadian Space Agency), and the German Aerospace Center signed a joint statement of intent to begin coordinated, preparatory work toward an Earth-based demonstrator to learn how to grow crops on the Moon.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://science.nasa.gov/science-research/biological-physical-sciences/nasa-international-partners-advance-work-on-space-crops/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0d19bc8236ef","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:26:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"EXCLUSIVE: State Department revokes over 250,000 visas in broad immigration vetting crackdown","headline":"State Department revoked over 250000 visas for crime fraud and security risks","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The State Department has revoked over 250,000 visas under Trump for criminal activity, fraud, birth tourism and national security threats.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The State Department has revoked over 250,000 visas under Trump for criminal activity, fraud, birth tourism and national security threats.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"immigration","sim":0.4648},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$32","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/state-department-revokes-250000-visas-broad-immigration-vetting-crackdown","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4dc8457db324","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:18:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEN HAAG","what":"Jongens mishandeld in Haags natuurgebied, politie zoekt getuigen","headline":"Boys assaulted in The Hague nature area, police seek witnesses","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bij de Bosjes van Pex, een natuurgebied in Den Haag, zijn maandagavond zeker twee jongens mishandeld.","quote":"Hij is achtervolgd en afgesneden. De groep van een man of vijftien gooide iets naar hem en wilde geld hebben.","quote_en":"He was chased and cut off. The group of about fifteen threw something at him and wanted money.","context":"Bij de Bosjes van Pex, een natuurgebied in Den Haag, zijn maandagavond zeker twee jongens mishandeld. Het gaat om een jongen van 13 en een jongen van 17, maar mogelijk zijn er meer slachtoffers, zegt de politie. De 17-jarige jongen werd uit het niets aangevallen door een groep jongeren op fatbikes, vertelt zijn vader bij Omroep West . \"Hij is achtervolgd en afgesneden. De groep van een man of vijftien gooide iets naar hem en wilde geld hebben.\" Toen zijn zoon dat niet had, pakten jongeren van de groep zijn kettingslot en sloegen hem op zijn hoofd.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"At the Bosjes van Pex nature area in The Hague, at least two boys were assaulted on Monday evening. The victims are a 13-year-old and a 17-year-old, but there may be more, police said.","context_en":"At the Bosjes van Pex nature area in The Hague, at least two boys were assaulted on Monday evening. The victims are a 13-year-old and a 17-year-old, but there may be more, police said.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633184","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d78484c4aa7c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:15:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Lawyer Cites ChatGPT-Invented Fake Witnesses in Murder Appeal","headline":"A lawyer used ChatGPT to invent fake witnesses for a murder appeal","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"Do you watch the news?","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"Do you watch the news? Do you listen to the radio? Do you read anything about what's going on in the world?” one of the judges asked the lawyer, who submitted false testimony and witnesses after using ChatGPT.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"404 Media","url":"https://www.404media.co/chatgpt-fake-witnesses-testimony-stephen-aarons-new-mexico/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"34def1981f13","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T18:04:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Kyiv returns to scheduled power outages","headline":"Ukraine resumed scheduled power outages in Kyiv after an order from Ukrenergo","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kyiv is switching back to scheduled power outages following an order from Ukrenergo, Ukraine's national energy company.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kyiv is switching back to scheduled power outages following an order from Ukrenergo, Ukraine's national energy company.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055873/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055841/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c49d46b42070","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:50:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BANDA SEA","what":"Star Trails","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"This long-duration image shows star trails above Earth and the blue lights of fishing boats and the yellow lights of Indonesian cities stretching below the International Space Station as it orbited 258 miles above the…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"This long-duration image shows star trails above Earth and the blue lights of fishing boats and the yellow lights of Indonesian cities stretching below the International Space Station as it orbited 258 miles above the Banda Sea on Sept. 20, 2026. Image credit: NASA/Anil Menon","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/image-article/star-trails/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1b3ecd30892f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:25:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CZECHIA","what":"Czech court rejects Russian company's appeal against freezing of 61 properties","headline":"Czechia's top court rejected a Russian company's appeal against the freezing of 61 properties","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Czechia’s Supreme Administrative Court has rejected a cassation appeal by a Russian state-owned company against the freezing of 61 of its properties.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Czechia’s Supreme Administrative Court has rejected a cassation appeal by a Russian state-owned company against the freezing of 61 of its properties.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055866/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"905e7c0abc97","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:12:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED KINGDOM","what":"UK-France 'one in, one out' migrant exchange deal is scrapped","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A British-French agreement aimed at reducing the number of people trying to cross the English Channel in small boats has been scrapped, London said Wednesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A British-French agreement aimed at reducing the number of people trying to cross the English Channel in small boats has been scrapped, London said Wednesday. The pilot programme was intended to break the business model of \"people smugglers\" by exchanging undocumented migrants who had made the crossing for people who legally applied for asylum.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20260930-uk-france-one-in-one-out-migrant-exchange-deal-is-scrapped","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"608d8f9ea0af","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:10:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IOWA","what":"ICYMI: President Trump Announces Largest-Ever Steel Plant Coming to Iowa","headline":"President Trump announced a 15 billion dollar steel plant for Iowa","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"President Donald J.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"President Donald J. Trump announced a $15 billion Mesabi Metallics steel complex is coming to Iowa — the largest steel plant ever built in the United States as more industrial capacity comes home. The project will create 1,750 new, permanent jobs, support up to 6,000 construction jobs, and generate an estimated $95 billion in U.S.","summary":"President Donald J. Trump said the 15 billion dollar Mesabi Metallics steel complex will come to Iowa. It is the largest steel plant ever built in the United States. The project will create 1750 permanent jobs and support up to 6000 construction jobs. It is set to generate 95 billion dollars in economic output over construction and the first 10 years of operations.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/09/icymi-president-trump-announces-largest-ever-steel-plant-coming-to-iowa/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/releases/2026/09/mined-melted-and-poured-in-america-president-trump-reverses-years-of-anti-mining-policy/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b6f1507c8959","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:08:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BENI","what":"Mort des hippopotames dans la rivière Semuliki à Beni: l’ICCN met en garde les riverains","headline":"Hippo deaths in Semuliki River in Beni: ICCN warns riverside residents","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Plusieurs carcasses d’hippopotames ont été découvertes depuis le début de cette semaine le long de la rivière Semuliki, dans le territoire de Beni.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Plusieurs carcasses d’hippopotames ont été découvertes depuis le début de cette semaine le long de la rivière Semuliki, dans le territoire de Beni. Dans un communiqué publié mercredi 30 septembre 2026, l’Institut congolais pour la conservation de la nature (ICCN) se dit préoccupé par cette situation et appelle les populations riveraines à faire preuve de vigilance. L’ICCN recommande notamment de ne pas toucher, déplacer ou enterrer les carcasses de ces animaux, en attendant le résultat définitif des analyses en cours.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Several hippopotamus carcasses have been discovered since the beginning of this week along the Semuliki River in Beni territory. In a communiqué published Wednesday 30 September 2026, the Congolese Institute for Nature Conservation (ICCN) says it is concerned by the situation and calls on riverside populations to be vigilant.","context_en":"Several hippopotamus carcasses have been discovered since the beginning of this week along the Semuliki River in Beni territory. In a communiqué published Wednesday 30 September 2026, the Congolese Institute for Nature Conservation (ICCN) says it is concerned by the situation and calls on riverside populations to be vigilant.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/environnement/mort-des-hippopotames-dans-la-riviere-semuliki-beni-liccn-met-en","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3d49be63cbfe","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T17:06:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Conservative Scott Aitchison confirms intention to resign from Parliament","headline":"Conservative Scott Aitchison confirmed in Canada that he intends to resign from Parliament","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Scott Aitchison will be the eighth MP to leave Pierre Poilievre’s Conservative caucus since the 2025 election, as Global News reported on Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Scott Aitchison will be the eighth MP to leave Pierre Poilievre’s Conservative caucus since the 2025 election, as Global News reported on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12082978/conservative-scott-atchison-resign-parliament-mp/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27f2fae5731f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:58:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"France to unveil 2027 budget as debt hits record high","headline":"France unveiled its 2027 budget as public debt hit a record 3.6 trillion euros","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"As the French government prepares to unveil its latest budget, the country's debt is at a record high and growing every day.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"As the French government prepares to unveil its latest budget, the country's debt is at a record high and growing every day. France's public debt currently stands at nearly 3.6 trillion euros, nearly 60 billion of that added in the last three months alone.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20260930-france-to-unveil-2027-budget-as-debt-hits-record-high","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a8d31e8f6b83","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:55:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"New York Gov pushes for probe into Cornell's handling of gang rape allegation","headline":"New York governor calls for probe of Cornell's response to gang rape claim","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New York Gov.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New York Gov. Kathy Hochul on Tuesday called for an investigation into Cornell University's response to a 2024 gang rape allegation in which a woman says she was sexually assaulted by seven students after being plied with alcohol and drugs. It comes as prosecutors reopen an investigation into the alleged rape following claims the elite college failed to properly punish the men involved.","summary":"New York Gov Kathy Hochul called for an investigation on Tuesday. She wants to know how Cornell University handled a gang rape claim from 2024. A woman said seven students gave her alcohol and drugs then sexually assaulted her. Prosecutors have now reopened their look at the case.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1,"top":true,"topSim":0.589},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Cornell University has run its own disciplinary process for student sexual misconduct since a 2014 federal agreement required it to overhaul how it reviewed complaints on campus. That process lets the school investigate, hold hearings and impose sanctions up to expulsion without handing every case to local police or prosecutors.\n\nOn Tuesday New York Governor Kathy Hochul called for a state investigation into the Ithaca school's handling of a complaint filed in 2024. The woman said seven male students gave her alcohol and drugs then sexually assaulted her; she told administrators but said the university did not punish the men as required by its own rules.\n\nProsecutors have now reopened a criminal inquiry into the same allegation. The governor's move puts Cornell's internal disciplinary records under outside review while the reopened criminal case proceeds in parallel.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/6121358-schumer-calls-cornell-assault-review/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20260930-new-york-gov-pushes-for-probe-into-cornell-s-handling-of-gang-rape-allegation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/cornell-student-2024-statement-police-reveals-new-details-rcna600803","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/US/new-york-gov-hochul-calls-transparent-independent-review/story?id=136855936","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"56976b087db5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:42:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Seks dømt for drab efter migrantforlis","headline":"Six convicted of manslaughter after migrant boat disaster","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Seks dømt for drab efter migrantforlis","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Six people have been convicted of manslaughter after a migrant boat capsized.","context_en":"Six people have been convicted of manslaughter after a migrant boat capsized.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/seks-doemt-drab-efter-migrantforlis","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6n8m33pn9djo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a1fece39239f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:41:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZAPORIZHZHIA","what":"Ukrainian forces use single ground robot to evacuate four wounded soldiers in constant danger from drones and mines – video","headline":"Ukrainian troops in Zaporizhzhia used one ground robot to pull four wounded soldiers from the front line in Ukraine","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Ukrainian military has used a single unmanned ground vehicle to evacuate four wounded infantrymen from the front line in Zaporizhzhia Oblast.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Ukrainian military has used a single unmanned ground vehicle to evacuate four wounded infantrymen from the front line in Zaporizhzhia Oblast.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$33","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055856/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"abd0c216afff","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:34:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GENOA","what":"Inaugurazione della 66ª edizione del Salone Nautico Internazionale","headline":"Inauguration of the 66th International Boat Show","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, partecipa all’inaugurazione della 66ª edizione del Salone Nautico Internazionale, presso il Waterfront di Levante (Terrazza del Padiglione Blu), a Genova, alle ore 11:30 di…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni, partecipa all’inaugurazione della 66ª edizione del Salone Nautico Internazionale, presso il Waterfront di Levante (Terrazza del Padiglione Blu), a Genova, alle ore 11:30 di giovedì 1 ottobre Data evento: Giovedì, Ottobre 1, 2026 Area Geografica: Italia Luogo: Waterfront di Levante - Genova Ora Evento: 11:30 Mostra su mappa: Governo: Meloni Impegno del Presidente:","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni is attending the inauguration of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Waterfront di Levante (Terrazza del Padiglione Blu) in Genoa at 11:30 on Thursday 1 October.","context_en":"Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni is attending the inauguration of the 66th edition of the International Boat Show at the Waterfront di Levante (Terrazza del Padiglione Blu) in Genoa at 11:30 on Thursday 1 October.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/agenda/2026-10-01t000000/inaugurazione-della-66-edizione-del-salone-nautico-internazionale/32698","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b726988f7f39","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:32:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Army Nears Crucial Brain Health Testing Milestone","headline":"Army reaches 97 percent use of Neurocognitive Assessment Tool for brain health in Washington","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"About 97% of soldiers have used the Neurocognitive Assessment Tool, helping medical professionals combat the effects of blast overpressure and low-level blast exposure, the Army's top leader overseeing safety and occu…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"About 97% of soldiers have used the Neurocognitive Assessment Tool, helping medical professionals combat the effects of blast overpressure and low-level blast exposure, the Army's top leader overseeing safety and occupational health said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The Army began requiring the Neurocognitive Assessment Tool for soldiers in 2018 to track cognitive changes tied to repeated blast overpressure from weapons and training. The tool records baseline performance and later scores so medical staff can spot declines linked to low-level blast exposure that builds up over a career.\n\nOn September 30 2026 the service reached 97 percent usage across the force according to the top officer in charge of safety and occupational health. That figure marks the point where nearly every soldier who needs the test has taken it at least once and the data set now covers the overwhelming majority of the active component.\n\nThe milestone hands Army doctors a near-complete picture of cognitive baselines across the service. It shifts the focus from expanding coverage to using the accumulated results to adjust training standards weapon distances and recovery protocols for troops who show repeated exposure effects.","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4614910/army-nears-crucial-brain-health-testing-milestone/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"353c61f79120","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:17:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Congressional Bill S. 2398 Signed into Law","headline":"President signed the Kay Hagan Tick Reauthorization Act into law on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"On Wednesday, September 30, 2026, the President signed into law: S.","quote":"Kay Hagan Tick Reauthorization Act,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"On Wednesday, September 30, 2026, the President signed into law: S. 2398, the “Kay Hagan Tick Reauthorization Act,” which reauthorizes through Fiscal Year 2030, activities to address vector-borne diseases.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2026/09/congressional-bill-s-2398-signed-into-law/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"443a8feeccab","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:15:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"TSA loses its chairs, leaving its union worried about worker health when forced to stand","headline":"TSA stopped letting officers sit at checkpoints while checking passenger IDs, and its union raised health concerns for workers forced to stand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"TSA decided officers will no longer be allowed to sit while verifying passengers' identities at security checkpoints.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"TSA decided officers will no longer be allowed to sit while verifying passengers' identities at security checkpoints.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/tsa-loses-its-chairs-leaving-its-union-worried-about-worker-health-when-forced-to-stand/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0c5001a471ca","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:15:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"USPS To Put Cameras in Trucks That Scan Roads for ‘Community Safety’","headline":"USPS put cameras on truck dashboards to scan roads and signs for community safety","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"USPS says the cameras, put on USPS truck dashboards, will scan roads, signs, and more.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"USPS says the cameras, put on USPS truck dashboards, will scan roads, signs, and more.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"404 Media","url":"https://www.404media.co/usps-to-put-cameras-in-trucks-that-scan-roads-for-community-safety/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e601126599b4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T16:09:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HYDERABAD","what":"‘Equivalent to book burning of 1930s,’ Huckabee says of Indian festival nixing Israeli’s photos","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“All I want to do is to take pictures, to go the street and do my job,” Sharon Gabay told JNS.","quote":"All I want to do is to take pictures, to go the street and do my job,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“All I want to do is to take pictures, to go the street and do my job,” Sharon Gabay told JNS. “I don’t like to mess with all of this.”","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/world/equivalent-to-book-burning-of-1930s-huckabee-says-of-indian-festival-nixing-israelis-photos","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ca12a6cdae7e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:53:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"74-year-old Army vet sues hospital after surgeons amputate wrong leg","headline":"A 74-year-old Army veteran sued a hospital after surgeons amputated her wrong leg","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The woman became a double amputee within four months.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The woman became a double amputee within four months. Both of her legs were amputated below the knee.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/army-vet-sues-hospital-surgeons-amputate-wrong-leg-rcna600645","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"14e77447f04c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:38:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENGLAND","what":"Support for families and babies rolled out to all family hubs","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Government expands Healthy Babies support, boosts adult social care workforce and backs NHS action on violence against women.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Government expands Healthy Babies support, boosts adult social care workforce and backs NHS action on violence against women.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/support-for-families-and-babies-rolled-out-to-all-family-hubs","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7d40c282a9a3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:29:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAVANA","what":"Un derrumbe parcial pone en alerta a más de 300 vecinos de Centro Habana","headline":"Partial collapse puts over 300 neighbors in Centro Habana on alert","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Parte del techo del cuarto piso de un antiguo hotel en Águila y San Miguel se desplomó sin causar víctimas","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Parte del techo del cuarto piso de un antiguo hotel en Águila y San Miguel se desplomó sin causar víctimas","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Part of the roof of the fourth floor of an old hotel at Águila and San Miguel collapsed without causing any victims.","context_en":"Part of the roof of the fourth floor of an old hotel at Águila and San Miguel collapsed without causing any victims.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/derrumbe-parcial-pone-alerta-300_1_1131379.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f58e67258e39","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:19:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TANGANYIKA","what":"Tanganyika : le secteur de Munono privé d’eau et d’hôpitaux","headline":"Tanganyika: Munono sector deprived of water and hospitals","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il n’y a pas d’eau potable, ni d’hôpitaux dans le secteur de Munono à 60 km de Kongolo-Centre, dans la province du Tanganyika.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il n’y a pas d’eau potable, ni d’hôpitaux dans le secteur de Munono à 60 km de Kongolo-Centre, dans la province du Tanganyika. Pour avoir accès à l’eau potable et aux soins de santé, les habitants sont obligés de parcourir plusieurs kilomètres. Face à ces difficultés, ils lancent un SOS aux autorités.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"There is no drinking water or hospitals in the Munono sector 60 km from Kongolo-Centre in Tanganyika province. To access drinking water and health care, residents are forced to travel several kilometers. Faced with these difficulties, they are sending an SOS to the authorities.","context_en":"There is no drinking water or hospitals in the Munono sector 60 km from Kongolo-Centre in Tanganyika province. To access drinking water and health care, residents are forced to travel several kilometers. Faced with these difficulties, they are sending an SOS to the authorities.","lang":"fr","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/sante/tanganyika-le-secteur-de-munono-prive-deau-et-dhopitaux","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"00d4063df74f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:10:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Premio nazionale Giacomo Matteotti, la cerimonia di premiazione della XXII edizione","headline":"National Giacomo Matteotti Prize, the XXII edition award ceremony","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La cerimonia di premiazione della XXII edizione del Premio nazionale intitolato a Giacomo Matteotti si svolgerà il 23 ottobre 2026, alle ore 12.00, presso la Sala Verde di Palazzo Chigi.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La cerimonia di premiazione della XXII edizione del Premio nazionale intitolato a Giacomo Matteotti si svolgerà il 23 ottobre 2026, alle ore 12.00, presso la Sala Verde di Palazzo Chigi. Lingua Italiano Fonte: Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Il Bando di concorso Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The award ceremony for the XXII edition of the National Prize named after Giacomo Matteotti will take place on 23 October 2026 at 12:00 in the Sala Verde of Palazzo Chigi.","context_en":"The award ceremony for the XXII edition of the National Prize named after Giacomo Matteotti will take place on 23 October 2026 at 12:00 in the Sala Verde of Palazzo Chigi.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/premio-nazionale-giacomo-matteotti-la-cerimonia-di-premiazione-della-xxii-edizione/32697","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27bfff0dedd5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:10:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HONG KONG","what":"Documents show China weighed military action in Hong Kong in 2014","headline":"Chinese officials considered military action in Hong Kong in November 2014, documents show in China","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Documents seen by Kyodo News have revealed that high-ranking Chinese military officials in November 2014 considered military inter Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Documents seen by Kyodo News have revealed that high-ranking Chinese military officials in November 2014 considered military inter Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86826","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"f18fc2ddd9c4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:08:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Thune's 'difficult' recon update","headline":"Thune gave a difficult update on his recon effort in Washington on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Politico · September 30, 2026.","quote":" after the midterms — but cautioned that he still didn't see a path to getting 50 votes. Thune spoke with Budget Chair Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) Wednesday morning. ","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$undefined","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2026/09/30/congress/thune-reconciliation-update-01099523","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"266752d7499b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:06:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"DIA and MHRA announce speaker line-up for inaugural global summit","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"International leaders will gather to address some of the most significant opportunities and challenges facing healthcare today at the DIA-MHRA Global Summit.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"International leaders will gather to address some of the most significant opportunities and challenges facing healthcare today at the DIA-MHRA Global Summit.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/dia-and-mhra-announce-speaker-line-up-for-inaugural-global-summit","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"372023b3f4db","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:04:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TIGRAY","what":"Ethiopia fighting escalates in Tigray killing 52 civilians, medic tells the BBC","headline":"Fighting killed 52 civilians in Ethiopia's Tigray region, a medic told the BBC","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The deadly fighting has also spread to neighbouring regions, stranding tourists in Lalibela.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The deadly fighting has also spread to neighbouring regions, stranding tourists in Lalibela.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6grveejg1e2o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8ed0cafeda41","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:03:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"New appointments to Financial Conduct Authority Board 2026","headline":"The Economic Secretary to the Treasury named Lea Paterson and Matthew Tobin as non-executive directors on the Financial Conduct Authority board in 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Economic Secretary to the Treasury has today confirmed that Lea Paterson CBE and Matthew Tobin have been appointed as Non–Executive Directors to the Board of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Economic Secretary to the Treasury has today confirmed that Lea Paterson CBE and Matthew Tobin have been appointed as Non–Executive Directors to the Board of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/new-appointments-to-financial-conduct-authority-board-2026","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2b7ed0e4e5c7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:03:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KASAI-CENTRAL","what":"Décès d’un jeune homme, piétiné par un éléphant à Kazumba","headline":"Young man trampled to death by elephant in Kazumba","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un jeune homme a été tué par un éléphant en divagation à la mission catholique de Mikalayi, dans le territoire de Kazumba au Kasaï-Central.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Un jeune homme a été tué par un éléphant en divagation à la mission catholique de Mikalayi, dans le territoire de Kazumba au Kasaï-Central. Cet incident, survenu mardi 29 septembre 2026, relance les inquiétudes des habitants face à la présence de cet animal signalé depuis plusieurs jours dans la région.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A young man was killed by a wandering elephant at the Catholic mission of Mikalayi, in the territory of Kazumba in Kasaï-Central. The incident, which occurred on Tuesday 29 September 2026, renews the inhabitants' concerns about the presence of this animal reported for several days in the region.","context_en":"A young man was killed by a wandering elephant at the Catholic mission of Mikalayi, in the territory of Kazumba in Kasaï-Central. The incident, which occurred on Tuesday 29 September 2026, renews the inhabitants' concerns about the presence of this animal reported for several days in the region.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/societe/deces-dun-jeune-homme-pietine-par-un-elephant-kazumba","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4820042feb90","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T15:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"Pedro Sánchez se reúne con Emmanuel Macron y reafirma la necesidad de impulsar una mayor soberanía europea","headline":"Pedro Sánchez meets with Emmanuel Macron and reaffirms the need to boost European sovereignty","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Moncloa, Madrid, miércoles 30 de septiembre de 2026 El presidente del Gobierno ha puesto en valor que las relaciones entre Francia y Espa&ntilde;a \"atraviesan un momento extraordinario\" y que comparten una visi&oac…","quote":"atraviesan un momento extraordinario","quote_en":"are going through an extraordinary moment","context":"La Moncloa, Madrid, miércoles 30 de septiembre de 2026 El presidente del Gobierno ha puesto en valor que las relaciones entre Francia y Espa&ntilde;a \"atraviesan un momento extraordinario\" y que comparten una visi&oacute;n de Europa soberana, unida y con voz propia. Comparecencia ante los medios de comunicación del presidente del Gobierno, Pedro Sánchez, junto con el presidente de la República Francesa, Emmanuel Macron.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The President of the Government has highlighted that relations between France and Spain \"are going through an extraordinary moment\" and that they share a vision of a sovereign, united Europe with its own voice.","context_en":"The President of the Government has highlighted that relations between France and Spain \"are going through an extraordinary moment\" and that they share a vision of a sovereign, united Europe with its own voice.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Moncloa","url":"https://www.lamoncloa.gob.es/presidente/actividades/Paginas/2026/300926-encuentro-sanchez-macron.aspx?qfr=1","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"acce4f459950","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:50:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Asian Games: Anraku wins on boulder as Kondo siblings get judo golds","headline":"Sorato Anraku won the men's sport climbing boulder title at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Wednesday while the Kondo siblings took judo golds for Japan","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan's Sorato Anraku won the men's sport climbing boulder title at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Wednesday, while the K Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan's Sorato Anraku won the men's sport climbing boulder title at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Wednesday, while the K Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/sports/2026/10/01/asian-games/kondo-siblings-judo-gold/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86823","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"7c75b420d359","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:32:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"Germany raises Deutschlandticket price to €66.80 a month from 2027 under new cost-based formula","headline":"Germany will raise the monthly Deutschlandticket price to 66.80 euros from 2027 under a new cost-based formula","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A new cost-based formula has pushed up the price of Germany's nationwide public transport pass for 2027.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A new cost-based formula has pushed up the price of Germany's nationwide public transport pass for 2027.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/germany-raises-deutschlandticket-price-to-€66-80-a-month-from-2027-under-new-cost-based-formula/a-79492524?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1016a5807d7e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BEIJING","what":"China extends probes into US trade barriers until December","headline":"China extended its probes into US trade barriers until December","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The investigations into US practices were due to conclude on Sept 27.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The investigations into US practices were due to conclude on Sept 27.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/china-extends-probes-into-us-trade-barriers-until-december","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9efc4b5c817e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Justices to consider when, if ever, federal district courts may review disputes over veterans’ benefits","headline":"The Supreme Court heard arguments Monday in Johnson v. United States Congress on when federal district courts may review veterans benefits disputes","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"On Monday, in Johnson v.","quote":"failed to provide any persuasive allegation, argument, or citation","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"On Monday, in Johnson v. United States Congress , the Supreme Court will revisit a 52-year-old ruling on judicial review of veterans’ benefits decisions as it considers whether a federal district court may hear a constitutional challenge to a law limiting disability benefits for certain incarcerated veterans. The case involves Floyd Johnson, who served in the U.S. Army from 1983 to 1985 . In 2013, after being convicted of several state felonies in Florida, Johnson received a 40-year prison sentence.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$34","sources":[{"outlet":"SCOTUSblog","url":"https://www.scotusblog.com/2026/09/justices-to-consider-when-if-ever-federal-district-courts-may-review-disputes-over-veterans-bene/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"37b63355e518","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:16:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"DSCC Online: Multi-factor Authentication","headline":"The DSCC added multi-factor authentication for all users of its online portal to improve account security","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"We're introducing multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all DSCC Online users to improve account security.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"We're introducing multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all DSCC Online users to improve account security.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/dscc-online-multi-factor-authentication","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"41b07617adbb","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:14:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"DA in Cornell case says he never saw interview transcript","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tompkins County District Attorney Matthew Van Houten says he never saw a transcript of a conversation between an alleged rape victim and investigators showing what she told Cornell University campus police before his…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tompkins County District Attorney Matthew Van Houten says he never saw a transcript of a conversation between an alleged rape victim and investigators showing what she told Cornell University campus police before his office decided not to bring charges.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1,"top":true,"topSim":0.533},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/cornell-university-rape-case-district-attorney-campus-police-interview/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f46c57507956","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:01:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BERGEN","what":"Årets varmeste dag målt i Bergen i Norge","headline":"Warmest day of the year measured in Bergen, Norway","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Årets varmeste dag målt i Bergen i Norge","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The warmest day of the year was measured in Bergen, Norway.","context_en":"The warmest day of the year was measured in Bergen, Norway.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/aarets-varmeste-dag-maalt-i-bergen-i-norge","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"684223f5d8f3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Mobile malware warning from Ukrainian researchers includes iPhone exploit kit","headline":"Ukrainian researchers warned of Russian mobile malware that included an iPhone exploit kit in Ukraine","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"'Hit and run' iPhone malware known as DarkSword is part of a wave of Russian attacks on iOS and Android devices, according to Ukraine's SSSCIP.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"'Hit and run' iPhone malware known as DarkSword is part of a wave of Russian attacks on iOS and Android devices, according to Ukraine's SSSCIP.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/ukraine-ssscip-mobile-malware-warning-ios-android","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a481aabf4876","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T14:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"U.S. electricity use for electric vehicles increasing at a slower pace in 2026","headline":"United States light-duty electric vehicles used 8 percent more electricity in first half of 2026","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"We estimate light-duty electric vehicles in the United States consumed 8% more electricity during the first six months of 2026 than in the last half of 2025 (2H25) in our Monthly Energy Review, down from the 13-24% gr…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"We estimate light-duty electric vehicles in the United States consumed 8% more electricity during the first six months of 2026 than in the last half of 2025 (2H25) in our Monthly Energy Review, down from the 13-24% growth seen in six-month periods in recent years. The slowing electric vehicle electricity consumption growth followed a decline in sales after U.S. federal tax credits expired in September 2025. Overall, U.S. light-duty electric vehicle electricity use has more than doubled since 1H23, totaling nearly 14 billion kilowatthours in 1H26.","summary":"Light-duty electric vehicles in the United States used 8 percent more electricity in the first half of 2026 than in the last half of 2025. This came after sales fell when federal tax credits ended in September 2025. Total use has more than doubled since the first half of 2023. It reached nearly 14 billion kilowatthours in the first half of 2026.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Light-duty electric vehicles in the United States drew more electricity from the grid with each passing half-year after the first half of 2023. Consumption more than doubled in that span and reached nearly 14 billion kilowatthours in the first six months of 2026.\n\nThe growth rate dropped to 8 percent in the first half of 2026 compared with the second half of 2025. That pace is lower than the 13-to-24-percent increases recorded in earlier six-month stretches. The change came after federal tax credits for new electric vehicles ended in September 2025 and sales fell.\n\nThe Monthly Energy Review published the half-year comparison on September 30. Overall electricity use by light-duty electric vehicles now stands at more than double the level from three years earlier.","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Energy Information Administration","url":"https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=68224","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1425d22a5d72","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:54:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Exercise Synergy delivers 100% EPA success rate","headline":"Exercise Synergy helped every CNC apprentice pass their EPA after the specialist development programme","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Exercise Synergy has helped CNC apprentices prepare for EPA success, with every participant completing the specialist development programme achieving a pass.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Exercise Synergy has helped CNC apprentices prepare for EPA success, with every participant completing the specialist development programme achieving a pass.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/exercise-synergy-delivers-100-epa-success-rate","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8406828dbe78","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:35:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SAUDI ARABIA","what":"A midair stabbing on a flight to Israel is investigated for possible terrorist links","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Saudi Arabia says the attacker and pilot who was stabbed have both been sent back to United Arab Emirates.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Saudi Arabia says the attacker and pilot who was stabbed have both been sent back to United Arab Emirates. Emirati officials are investigating the incident for possible terrorist links.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$35","sources":[{"outlet":"NPR","url":"https://www.npr.org/2026/09/30/nx-s1-5985806/flydubai-flight-dubai-tel-aviv-israel","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/far-right-israeli-minister-says-alleged-attacker-should-be-extradited-to-israel/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"30ad28681b52","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:32:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAVANA","what":"El embajador chino en La Habana da una clase de economía de mercado a 'Cubadebate'","headline":"Chinese ambassador in Havana gives a market economy lesson to 'Cubadebate'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Pekín \"está haciendo los máximos esfuerzos para ayudar\" a la Isla, dice Hua Xin: \"Ahora, estamos construyendo 15 parques solares de 85 MW y han llegado materiales para el almacenamiento de energía fotovoltaica de 200 MW\"","quote":"está haciendo los máximos esfuerzos para ayudar","quote_en":"is making the maximum efforts to help","context":"Pekín \"está haciendo los máximos esfuerzos para ayudar\" a la Isla, dice Hua Xin: \"Ahora, estamos construyendo 15 parques solares de 85 MW y han llegado materiales para el almacenamiento de energía fotovoltaica de 200 MW\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Beijing \"is making the maximum efforts to help\" the Island, says Hua Xin: \"Now, we are building 15 solar parks of 85 MW and materials for photovoltaic energy storage of 200 MW have arrived.\"","context_en":"Beijing \"is making the maximum efforts to help\" the Island, says Hua Xin: \"Now, we are building 15 solar parks of 85 MW and materials for photovoltaic energy storage of 200 MW have arrived.\"","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/embajador-chino-habana-da-clase_1_1131372.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"07ca0b274183","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Tshishe-Utshimau Carney e tshissinuashtat Tapueun kie minu-tapishimitishun tshishikunnu","headline":"Prime Minister Carney marked a day of truth and reconciliation in Canada","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Ume tapueun mak minu-tapishimitishun kie kaishkuteusht kukushakup, tshissinuashteuanan anitshenat ka shaputueshkakau, anitshenat ka nenekatshinitau, ka nenekatenimianitau ka kamitshitutaunit, nitshissinishtauanan ani…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$36","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/tshishe-utshimau-carney-e-tshissinuashtat-tapueun-kie-minu","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/giigidowin-gichi-ogimaakan-carney-mikwendan-giizhigad-izhi-debwewin","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/wihtamakewin-kihci-okimaw-carney-ohci-isi-misiweskamik-kisikaw-kiki","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/weestamakaywin-ouschi-kischee-li-ministr-carney-ouschi-ishi-mishiway","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4aaec8083574","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"K’oldheré Nedhé t’ak’oldher Carney yełtsı̨ ɂedırı Dzı̨ne Nųt’ą Sehenųt’a chu Ɂełtth’ı́ ɂası hołé bası","headline":"Canada launched a national hotline and support plan for residential school survivors and their families on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Ku ɂedırı Dzı̨ne Nųt’ą Sehenųt’a chu Ɂełtth’ı́ ɂası hołé bası chu Jıthoghelahot’ı̨ desısɂı̨h Dzı̨ne nųt’ą k’é, t’ą hadaghı̨na benahonı̨ sı Dene xare kuę naraı̨dé nı̨sı, ɂeyı sekuı t’ą bekuę nı̨deł hılé t…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$37","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/koldhere-nedhe-takoldher-carney-yeltsi-ediri-dzine-nuta-sehenuta-chu","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6b389057caaa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"ᐅᐃᐧᑕᒪᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐅᐊᐧᐁᐧ ᑭᐦᒋᐅᑭᒪ ᑲᓇᑕ ᑲᕑᓂ ᑲᐃᐧᑕᐠ ᒥᓯᐁᐧ ᑭᔑᑲᐣ ᑲᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᒋᑲᑌᐠ ᑌᐯᐤᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ","headline":"Indian residential schools in Canada harmed more than 150,000 indigenous children over decades","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“ᐁᑲᐧ ᐅᐁᐧ ᒥᓯᐁᐧ ᑭᔑᑲᐣ ᑲᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᒋᑲᑌᐠ ᑌᐯᐤᐃᐧᐣ ᒥᓇ ᒥᓂᓂᑫᐃᐧᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᒥᐢᑯᐅᓴᐃᐧ ᐱᑕᐁᐧᐡᑭᑲᐣ ᑭᔑᑲᐣ, ᐁᑲᐧ ᓂᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐊᐧᒥᓇᐠ ᑲᑭᔕᐳᐡᑲᒧᐊᐧᐨ ᐅᑕᓇᐠ ᑲᓇᑕ ᑲᑭᐱᒧᑐᒋᐣ ᑭᐦᑭᓄᐦᐊᒪᑫᐃᐧᑲᒥᑯᐣ, ᒥᓇ ᐁᒥᑲᐃᐧᐣᑕᐊᐧᔭᐠ ᐊᐊᐧᔑᔕᐠ ᐁᑲ ᑲᑭᐅᒋᐱᑭᐁᐧᐊᐧᐨ, ᒥᓇ ᐁᐃᐧᒋᑲᐸᐃᐧᑕᐊᐧᔭᐠ ᑎᐯᐣᒋᑫᐃᐧᓇᐣ ᐁᑲᐧ ᑕᔑᑫᐧᐃᓇᐣ ᑭᔭᐱᐨ…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$38","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/uiwtamakaiiwn-uawaiw-kigiukima-kanata-karni-kaiwtak-misiaiw-kishikan","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"21b61a5f2592","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T13:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Prime Minister Carney odoshbigan odja Tebwendjageh mamowi kwek ijatcagewin kijigan","headline":"Prime Minister Carney marked National Day for Truth and Reconciliation with First Nations, Inuit and Metis people in Canada on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Nogom wedi e-kijigik Tebwendjageh mamowi kwek ijatcagewin kijigan mamowi Misko-ozawa abagiyan kijigan ka ijinkadek, kiga mokowendjigemin kagi swabwikidimowatc Canada Mehkodowkoneh kinamageh migwamik mekodekone oga ki…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$39","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/prime-minister-carney-odoshbigan-odja-tebwendjageh-mamowi-kwek","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/statements/2026/09/30/tan-teloet-prime-minister-carney-olaon-national-day-ogjit-telaigeoeo-ag","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dbbe0fecc881","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:57:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BIRMINGHAM","what":"CNC attends Europe’s top Emergency Services Show","headline":"CNC officers attended Europe's top Emergency Services Show in Birmingham, United Kingdom, to showcase the AFO role, raise awareness and inspire recruits","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"CNC officers and staff attended the Emergency Services Show, engaging thousands of visitors to showcase the AFO role, raise awareness and inspire recruits.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"CNC officers and staff attended the Emergency Services Show, engaging thousands of visitors to showcase the AFO role, raise awareness and inspire recruits.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/cnc-attends-europes-top-emergency-services-show","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0994500751c8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Senate blocks measure requiring report on Israeli violence in West Bank","headline":"Senate Democrats failed to pass a measure requiring the State Department to report on Israeli settler violence in the West Bank","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Nearly all Senate Democrats voted to require the State Department to report on Israeli settler violence in the West Bank.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nearly all Senate Democrats voted to require the State Department to report on Israeli settler violence in the West Bank.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2026/10/01/senate-blocks-measure-requiring-report-israeli-violence-west-bank/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"2295a7e04568","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:32:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Men's archery, esports give Taiwan 2 more bronzes at Asian Games","headline":"Taiwan won two more silver medals in shooting and Kurash at the Asian Games in Aichi Japan on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) The Taiwan men's archery team edged South Korea 234-233 in a neck-and-neck match to clinch a bronze medal, while its esports squad also won a bronze at the 2026 Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games on Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/sports/202609300018","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/sports/202609290020","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e646cd003e70","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:28:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Adobe, Amazon, Intel, Starlink, Google, and Zoom partner with First Lady Melania Trump’s Fostering the Future Together","headline":"First Lady Melania Trump won technology partnerships for Fostering the Future Together from Adobe, Amazon, Intel, Starlink, Google, and Zoom in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"First Lady Melania Trump secured six new private-sector technology partnerships for Fostering the Future Together, including Adobe, Amazon, Intel, Starlink, Google, and Zoom.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"First Lady Melania Trump secured six new private-sector technology partnerships for Fostering the Future Together, including Adobe, Amazon, Intel, Starlink, Google, and Zoom. “When I established Fostering the Future Together, the mission was clear: empower children through technology and education. Delivering on that mission demands alliances between best-in-class innovators and global leaders, especially as super","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2026/09/adobe-amazon-intel-starlink-google-and-zoom-partner-with-first-lady-melania-trumps-fostering-the-future-together/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"918254e01223","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:11:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORWAY","what":"Seks personer i dykkerulykke i Norge","headline":"Six people in diving accident in Norway","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Seks personer i dykkerulykke i Norge","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Six people were involved in a diving accident in Norway.","context_en":"Six people were involved in a diving accident in Norway.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/fire-personer-savnes-efter-dykkerulykke-i-norge","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fb5b9ee23d84","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T12:08:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH KIVU","what":"Trois décès liés au choléra signalés en une semaine à Fizi","headline":"Three cholera-linked deaths reported in one week in Fizi","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Division provinciale de la santé du Sud-Kivu confirme ce mercredi 30 septembre, la présence du choléra dans plusieurs localités du territoire de Fizi.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Division provinciale de la santé du Sud-Kivu confirme ce mercredi 30 septembre, la présence du choléra dans plusieurs localités du territoire de Fizi. Elle rapporte trois décès liés à la maladie entre le 14 et le 20 septembre 2026.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Provincial Health Division of South Kivu confirms this Wednesday, September 30, the presence of cholera in several localities of Fizi territory. It reports three deaths linked to the disease between September 14 and 20, 2026.","context_en":"The Provincial Health Division of South Kivu confirms this Wednesday, September 30, the presence of cholera in several localities of Fizi territory. It reports three deaths linked to the disease between September 14 and 20, 2026.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/sante/trois-deces-lies-au-cholera-signales-en-une-semaine-fizi","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0822f911617d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:55:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KUMAMOTO","what":"Imperial couple meet with disaster victims in quake-hit Kumamoto","headline":"Japan's Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako met disaster victims in Kumamoto on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako on Wednesday visited Kumamoto Prefecture in southwestern Japan and met with local people two m Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Emperor Naruhito and Empress Masako on Wednesday visited Kumamoto Prefecture in southwestern Japan and met with local people two m Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86804","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"de4c9a36ff20","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:47:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MISSOURI","what":"Capt. Hannah Kriewaldt retires after 27 distinguished years building and delivering the Navy’s fleet","headline":"United States Navy Capt Hannah Kriewaldt retired in Newport News after 27 years building and delivering the fleet, Missouri","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NEWPORT NEWS, Va.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NEWPORT NEWS, Va. — When Captain Hannah A. Kriewaldt departed St. Joseph, Missouri, in the summer of 1995 for the brick courtyards of the United States Naval Academy, she could ...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"MilitaryNews.com","url":"https://www.militarynews.com/norfolk-navy-flagship/news/top_stories/capt-hannah-kriewaldt-retires-after-27-distinguished-years-building-and-delivering-the-navy-s-fleet/article_3d372d0c-dcb6-4d3c-af02-f61a04d8896e.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a8dffc299d51","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:45:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH AFRICA","what":"Rehabilitation works on damaged Bloemhof Dam upstream slope underway","headline":"The Department of Water and Sanitation started rehabilitation work on the damaged upstream slope of Bloemhof Dam in South Africa","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rehabilitation works on damaged Bloemhof Dam upstream slope underway The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) has assured all communities, water users, and stakeholders affected by upstream slope damage at Bloemho…","quote":"This was done being mindful of a need to manage floods when they present themselves in the system. Bloemhof Dam is currently at 109%,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rehabilitation works on damaged Bloemhof Dam upstream slope underway The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) has assured all communities, water users, and stakeholders affected by upstream slope damage at Bloemhof Dam that the matter is being actively managed and remains under continuous oversight by the engineering and technical specialists. “A contractor is already on site and is undertaking the necessary maintenance preparations under the direct guidance of departmental experts.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/rehabilitation-works-damaged-bloemhof-dam-upstream-slope-underway","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4ed8adc442a1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERAK","what":"Four Singaporeans hurt after car crashes into drain on Cameron Highlands-Simpang Pulai road","headline":"Four Singaporeans were hurt when their car crashed into a drain on the Cameron Highlands-Simpang Pulai road in Malaysia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Perak Fire and Rescue Department said the victims were three men aged 19, 20 and 21, and a 21-year-old woman.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Perak Fire and Rescue Department said the victims were three men aged 19, 20 and 21, and a 21-year-old woman.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/four-singaporeans-hurt-after-car-crashes-into-drain-on-cameron-highlands-simpang-pulai-road","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"200f13eb75a3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:36:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IRAQ","what":"Last UK and US troops leave Iraq as anti-Islamic State mission ends","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The withdrawal of coalition forces, under a deal agreed two years ago, was a key demand of the Iraqi government.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The withdrawal of coalition forces, under a deal agreed two years ago, was a key demand of the Iraqi government.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$3a","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c65ym1dyn92mo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"764fbe926117","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:29:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PRAGUE","what":"President Meloni’s press statement with Prime Minister Babiš of the Czech Republic","headline":"President Meloni’s press statement with Prime Minister Babiš of the Czech Republic","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Good evening, everyone, thank you for being here.","quote":"It is safe to say that, over these years, Italy and the Czech Republic have been closer than ever, with our relationship now in a position to be able to fully express its development potential.","quote_en":"It is safe to say that, over these years, Italy and the Czech Republic have been closer than ever, with our relationship now in a position to be able to fully express its development potential.","context":"$3b","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Good evening, everyone, thank you for being here. I am very pleased indeed to be here in Prague and to meet again with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, my friend Andrej Babiš, whom I thank for the invitation, for the welcome extended to myself and the delegation and, above all, for the discussions we have had and will continue to have after this press conference.","context_en":"Good evening, everyone, thank you for being here. I am very pleased indeed to be here in Prague and to meet again with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, my friend Andrej Babiš, whom I thank for the invitation, for the welcome extended to myself and the delegation and, above all, for the discussions we have had and will continue to have after this press conference.","lang":"it","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32696","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32694","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32693","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c8786b45d640","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:29:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuania to ban Belarusian, Russian nationals from owning property near strategic sites","headline":"Lithuania approved a draft law that bans Russian and Belarusian nationals from owning property near strategic sites even if they hold residence permits","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lithuania’s government on Wednesday approved a draft legislation banning Russian and Belarusian nationals from purchasing property in areas located near strategic sites, even if they hold residence permits.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lithuania’s government on Wednesday approved a draft legislation banning Russian and Belarusian nationals from purchasing property in areas located near strategic sites, even if they hold residence permits.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068236/lithuania-to-ban-belarusian-russian-nationals-from-owning-property-near-strategic-sites","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"730d2cb1df3a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:27:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BEIJING","what":"China's Xi talks economy, Taiwan at reception marking National Day","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"BEIJING, Sept 30 - Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday called for efforts to achieve full-year economic targets while reiterating firm opposition to Taiwan independence and external interference, according to a…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"BEIJING, Sept 30 - Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday called for efforts to achieve full-year economic targets while reiterating firm opposition to Taiwan independence and external interference, according to a speech he delivered at a reception marking the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/chinas-xi-talks-economy-taiwan-at-reception-marking-national-day","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f9c73beaf704","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:25:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Cooler, wetter weather forecast in northern Taiwan next week","headline":"Cooler, wetter weather is forecast for northern Taiwan next week","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Seasonal northeasterly winds will bring cooler temperatures and rain to northern and eastern Taiwan from Monday, with daytime highs forecast to drop to around 27-28 degrees Celsius, the Central Weather Administration (CWA) said Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300017","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"efd32efb38a6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:09:54.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Royal Run melder udsolgt","headline":"Royal Run sells out","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Royal Run melder udsolgt","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Royal Run has announced it is sold out.","context_en":"Royal Run has announced it is sold out.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/royal-run-melder-udsolgt","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7d362712633a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:08:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BELIZE","what":"Taiwan, Belize sign agreements to enhance collaboration during FM's visit","headline":"China signed two agreements with Belize to strengthen ties during the foreign minister's visit in September","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) The government of the Republic of China (Taiwan) and Belize signed two major agreements on Tuesday to reaffirm their longstanding partnership, as Foreign Minister Lin Chia-lung (林佳龍) was set to conclude his three-day visit to the Central American ally.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202609300016","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fc65b571829d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:07:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Statement by President of the Council of Ministers Giorgia Meloni","headline":"Statement by President of the Council of Ministers Giorgia Meloni","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, a European Parliament building in Brussels has been named after David Sassoli.","quote":"This is a fitting tribute to the memory of an Italian who served the EU institutions with honour and was a deep believer in democracy. David Sassoli had ideas and political positions that were different from my own, but that never stopped me appreciating his professionalism, competence and loyalty. A man of integrity and a high-calibre politician, whom we will remember for a long time to come.","quote_en":"This is a fitting tribute to the memory of an Italian who served the EU institutions with honour and was a deep believer in democracy. David Sassoli had ideas and political positions that were different from my own, but that never stopped me appreciating his professionalism, competence and loyalty. A man of integrity and a high-calibre politician, whom we will remember for a long time to come.","context":"Today, a European Parliament building in Brussels has been named after David Sassoli. This is a fitting tribute to the memory of an Italian who served the EU institutions with honour and was a deep believer in democracy. David Sassoli had ideas and political positions that were different from my own, but that never stopped me appreciating his professionalism, competence and loyalty. A man of integrity and a high-calibre politician, whom we will remember for a long time to come. [ Courtesy translation ] Lingua Inglese Fonte: Il Presidente del Consiglio Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata Italiano","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Today, a European Parliament building in Brussels has been named after David Sassoli. This is a fitting tribute to the memory of an Italian who served the EU institutions with honour and was a deep believer in democracy.","context_en":"Today, a European Parliament building in Brussels has been named after David Sassoli. This is a fitting tribute to the memory of an Italian who served the EU institutions with honour and was a deep believer in democracy.","lang":"it","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/node/32695","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27be4026aa18","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T11:00:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Appointment of Leah Kreitzman as the Advisor on Marketing Communication Processes & Strategy","headline":"Leah Kreitzman took the job as advisor on marketing communication processes and strategy","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Leah Kreitzman has been appointed as the Advisor on Marketing Communication Processes & Strategy.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Leah Kreitzman has been appointed as the Advisor on Marketing Communication Processes & Strategy.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Prime Minister’s Office","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/appointment-of-leah-kreitzman-as-the-advisor-on-marketing-communication-processes-strategy","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dddc75771e20","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:53:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"AGC Display Glass employees protest at MOL ahead of 10/5 strike","headline":"AGC Display Glass Taiwan workers protested at the labor ministry in Taipei on Wednesday before their planned October 5 strike over low wages","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) The employee union of AGC Display Glass Taiwan protested outside the Ministry of Labor (MOL) in Taipei on Wednesday ahead of a strike over allegedly low and stagnant wages next week.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300015","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"993e756949bc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:52:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ANCONA","what":"Fincantieri shipyard accident kills worker, critically injures another","headline":"An accident at Fincantieri shipyard in Ancona, Italy, killed one worker and critically injured another on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ROME, Sept 30 - A man died and another was seriously injured after an accident at a shipyard operated by Italy's Fincantieri in the port city of Ancona, the shipbuilder and police said on Wednesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ROME, Sept 30 - A man died and another was seriously injured after an accident at a shipyard operated by Italy's Fincantieri in the port city of Ancona, the shipbuilder and police said on Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/fincantieri-shipyard-accident-kills-worker-critically-injures-another","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e4544207ff06","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:41:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BOGOR","what":"Watch: Luxury prison in Indonesia demolished after public outcry","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Indonesian lawmakers on Wednesday ordered the demolition of a controversial luxury compound inside a penitentiary near the capital.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indonesian lawmakers on Wednesday ordered the demolition of a controversial luxury compound inside a penitentiary near the capital.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/cmwyz8j9j85wo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"204a3c189c17","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:28:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PHOENIX","what":"Suns' Dillon Brooks charged with DUI stemming from incident in March","headline":"Phoenix Suns forward Dillon Brooks faced a DUI charge from his March arrest in Scottsdale Arizona","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Phoenix Suns forward Dillon Brooks has been charged with driving under the influence related to his arrest in March by police in Scottsdale, Arizona.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Phoenix Suns forward Dillon Brooks has been charged with driving under the influence related to his arrest in March by police in Scottsdale, Arizona.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"San Mateo Daily Journal","url":"https://www.smdailyjournal.com/sports/suns-dillon-brooks-charged-with-dui-stemming-from-incident-in-march/article_f0ce9311-cfc9-5532-b036-9b09c8d7ff71.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3ff29017ab19","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:17:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EGYPT","what":"Sisi issues new Presidential directives regarding private vehicle licensing","headline":"President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ordered Egypt's Interior Ministry to improve private vehicle licensing services and cut costs for citizens","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ordered the Interior Ministry to take the necessary measures to serve the best interests of citizens in private vehicle licensing.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi ordered the Interior Ministry to take the necessary measures to serve the best interests of citizens in private vehicle licensing. These directives emphasize improving the quality of services provided, rationalizing vehicle licensing costs, and ensuring that citizens are treated with courtesy and respect. These instructions arise when vehicle licensing and renewal …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/sisi-issues-new-presidential-directives-regarding-private-vehicle-licensing/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86411e0a2068","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:17:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUBA","what":"\"Me operaron con tecnologías de hace 30 años y me salvaron la vida\", cuenta Di Battista","headline":"They operated on me with 30-year-old technology and saved my life, says Di Battista","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ex diputado italiano fue hospitalizado en Cuba por un tumor cerebral","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El ex diputado italiano fue hospitalizado en Cuba por un tumor cerebral","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The former Italian deputy was hospitalized in Cuba for a brain tumor.","context_en":"The former Italian deputy was hospitalized in Cuba for a brain tumor.","lang":"es","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/internacional/operaron-tecnologias-30-anos-salvaron_1_1131358.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a8bf53e52bc5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T10:13:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH AFRICA","what":"Opening remarks by Deputy Minister in The Presidency, Nonceba Mhlauli, on the release of the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention (PYEI) Q1 2026/27 Quarterly Progress Report","headline":"Deputy Minister Nonceba Mhlauli released South Africa's Presidential Youth Employment Intervention Q1 2026/27 progress report on 30 September 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Opening remarks by Deputy Minister in The Presidency, Nonceba Mhlauli, on the release of the Presidential Youth Employment Intervention (PYEI) Q1 2026/27 Quarterly Progress Report Newsroom Date Wednesday, 30 September…","quote":"earning opportunities,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$3c","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Presidency (South Africa)","url":"https://thepresidency.gov.za/opening-remarks-deputy-minister-presidency-nonceba-mhlauli-release-presidential-youth-employment","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/more-26-million-temporary-earning-opportunities-through-pyei","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8de0db287456","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:59:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"CNA to relaunch Spanish-language Focus Taiwan with AI assistance","headline":"Taiwan's Central News Agency relaunched its Spanish-language Focus Taiwan news service on Thursday with AI help to produce and edit stories","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Taiwan's Central News Agency (CNA) announced Wednesday that it will relaunch its Spanish-language Focus Taiwan news service Thursday, using artificial intelligence (AI) to help produce and edit stories.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/culture/202609300014","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"909a6ea9ebac","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:27:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"Smoking to be banned in Taipei's Xinyi Shopping District from Nov. 1","headline":"Taipei in Taiwan will ban smoking in its Xinyi Shopping District from Nov. 1","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Smoking will be banned in Taipei's Xinyi Shopping District near MRT's Taipei City Hall station from Nov. 1, with violators facing fines of up to NT$10,000 (US$318) after a one-month grace period starting Thursday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300012","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c288c91878f3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:21:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Provokunstner idømmes bøde for at krænke fængselsbetjent","headline":"Provocative artist fined for offending prison officer","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Provokunstner idømmes bøde for at krænke fængselsbetjent","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A provocative artist has been fined for offending a prison officer.","context_en":"A provocative artist has been fined for offending a prison officer.","lang":"da","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/provokunstner-idoemmes-boede-kraenke-faengselsbetjent","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3b23c021b06c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:11:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DUBAI","what":"Fly fra Dubai til Tel Aviv omdirigeret efter nødsignal","headline":"Flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv diverted after emergency signal","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Fly fra Dubai til Tel Aviv omdirigeret efter nødsignal","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv was diverted after an emergency signal.","context_en":"A flight from Dubai to Tel Aviv was diverted after an emergency signal.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/fly-fra-dubai-til-tel-aviv-omdirigeret-efter-noedsignal","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a9a0ff541eda","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:03:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuania’s Justice Ministry mounts resistance against same-sex partnership","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Lithuanian regional court has rejected the Justice Ministry’s appeal against a decision requiring the state to register the partnership of two women who married abroad, marking another legal setback for the governme…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Lithuanian regional court has rejected the Justice Ministry’s appeal against a decision requiring the state to register the partnership of two women who married abroad, marking another legal setback for the government in cases involving same-sex couples.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068140/lithuania-s-justice-ministry-mounts-resistance-against-same-sex-partnership","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3fb44848794d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T09:01:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PENNSYLVANIA","what":"Carnegie Mellon nets $3 billion gift, most ever given to a university","headline":"Ken Griffin gave Carnegie Mellon University a 3 billion dollar gift in Pennsylvania","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Entrepreneur Ken Griffin’s donation will launch a new campus in Miami and support the school’s Pittsburgh campus.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Entrepreneur Ken Griffin’s donation will launch a new campus in Miami and support the school’s Pittsburgh campus.","summary":"Ken Griffin gave Carnegie Mellon University three billion dollars. The money will pay for a new campus in Miami and work at the main campus in Pittsburgh. It is the largest single gift ever made to any university.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Carnegie Mellon University has operated its main campus in Pittsburgh since its founding in 1900 as a technical school that later expanded into a research university with programs in computer science, engineering and the arts.\n\nOn September 30 2026 hedge fund founder Ken Griffin gave the school three billion dollars the largest single gift ever made to any American university the money will pay for construction of a new campus in Miami and for continued operations and programs at the Pittsburgh site.\n\nThe gift raises the university's total endowment above ten billion dollars and sets the scale of its physical presence and research capacity for the next phase of its growth.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/education/2026/09/30/carnegie-mellon-nets-3-billion-gift-most-ever-given-university/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"89a2ba38e418","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T08:54:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"Ex-NTNU women's soccer coach indicted over research fraud","headline":"Former National Taiwan Normal University women's soccer coach Chou Tai-ying was indicted in Taipei on Wednesday for research fraud that netted her NT$1.293 million","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Former National Taiwan Normal University (NTNU) women's soccer coach Chou Tai-ying (周台英) was indicted Wednesday for allegedly obtaining NT$1.293 million (US40,573) through research projects that were either fake or had an inflated number of participants.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300011","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e523e457cfb2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T08:48:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Three in four EU employees faced cyber threats at work, new Eurobarometer finds","headline":"Three in four EU workers faced cyber threats at work, a new Eurobarometer survey found in Belgium","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 Three in four employees in the European Union encountered suspicious emails, messages or links at work, according to a new Eurobarometer survey published by the…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 Three in four employees in the European Union encountered suspicious emails, messages or links at work, according to a new Eurobarometer survey published by the European Commission today. The results were released as European Cybersecurity Month begins across all 27 Member States.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2020","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"32219339a0dd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T08:47:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Asst. AG McDonald to Newsmax: DOJ Social Security fraud sweep charges 17","headline":"Assistant Attorney General McDonald told Newsmax that a Justice Department Social Security fraud sweep charged 17 people","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Asst.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Asst. AG McDonald to Newsmax: DOJ Social Security Fraud Sweep Charges 17 ...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Newsmax","url":"https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/other/asst-ag-mcdonald-to-newsmax-doj-social-security-fraud-sweep-charges-17/ar-AA2dhx0a","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"221c22ca501c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T08:19:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Consumer protection authorities ramp up action to protect gamers' rights","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 Today, the Consumer Protection Cooperation (CPC) Network has launched EU-level coordinated actions in relation to nine video games companies, aiming to strengthe…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 Today, the Consumer Protection Cooperation (CPC) Network has launched EU-level coordinated actions in relation to nine video games companies, aiming to strengthen the protection of gamers' rights.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2018","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"75933da86728","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T08:00:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TYROL","what":"Zeugen schlugen Alarm - Senior (75) bei Sturz in Bachbett schwer verletzt","headline":"Witnesses raised the alarm - senior (75) seriously injured in fall into stream bed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kurioser und folgenschwerer Unfall in Neustift im Tiroler Stubaital am Dienstagnachmittag!","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kurioser und folgenschwerer Unfall in Neustift im Tiroler Stubaital am Dienstagnachmittag! Ein einheimischer Fußgänger (75) stürzte plötzlich in das Bachbett der Ruetz. Der Notarzthubschrauber musste ausrücken – ebenso die Freiwillige Feuerwehr.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A curious and serious accident occurred in Neustift in the Tyrolean Stubai Valley on Tuesday afternoon. A local pedestrian (75) suddenly fell into the stream bed of the Ruetz. The emergency doctor helicopter had to be deployed - as did the volunteer fire brigade.","context_en":"A curious and serious accident occurred in Neustift in the Tyrolean Stubai Valley on Tuesday afternoon. A local pedestrian (75) suddenly fell into the stream bed of the Ruetz. The emergency doctor helicopter had to be deployed - as did the volunteer fire brigade.","lang":"de","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kronen Zeitung","url":"https://www.krone.at/4314493","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a1f076f14c90","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:58:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DNIPRO","what":"Dnipro under attack","headline":"Russian forces attacked Dnipro in Ukraine in the morning","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Russian military attacked Dnipro in the morning.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Russian military attacked Dnipro in the morning.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169499-dnipro-under-attack.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e51155e18bd9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:56:24.698Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"German unemployment rises much more than expected in September","headline":"Unemployment in Germany rose more than expected in September","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"German unemployment rises much more than expected in September","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/german-unemployment-rises-much-more-than-expected-september-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d9ac8ec819e9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:55:02.908Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GHANA","what":"Tullow Oil loses $196.5 million Ghana tax dispute; shares tank","headline":"Tullow Oil lost a $196.5 million tax dispute in Ghana on September 30 2026 and its shares fell","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tullow Oil loses $196.5 million Ghana tax dispute; shares tank","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/tullow-oil-loses-1965-million-ghana-tax-dispute-shares-tank-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8f0db164641e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:55:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuania wants permanent US troop presence, PM says","headline":"Lithuania asked the US to keep troops in the country for good and offered to pay for it, its prime minister said Tuesday","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lithuania wants the US to maintain a permanent troop presence in the country and is ready to pay for it, Prime Minister Mindaugas Sinkevičius told in an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lithuania wants the US to maintain a permanent troop presence in the country and is ready to pay for it, Prime Minister Mindaugas Sinkevičius told in an interview with Bloomberg on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$3d","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068126/lithuania-wants-permanent-us-troop-presence-pm-says","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3d2af7e657d4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:54:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GHANA","what":"Cost of building inflation for August 2026 increases to 4.6% – GSS","headline":"Ghana Statistical Service said building costs rose 4.6 percent in August 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New data released by the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) has shown that the Combined Prime Building Cost Index (PBCI) which measures how the overall cost of constructing buildings changes over time went up by 4.6 perc…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New data released by the Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) has shown that the Combined Prime Building Cost Index (PBCI) which measures how the overall cost of constructing buildings changes over time went up by 4.6 percent year on year for August 2026. The Combined Prime Building Cost Index tracks the prices of key construction inputs","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"MyJoyOnline","url":"https://www.myjoyonline.com/cost-of-building-inflation-for-august-2026-increases-to-4-6-gss/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5830dd6460d8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:54:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEUWIED","what":"Syrer in Neuwied wegen Hinrichtungen festgenommen","headline":"Syrian arrested in Neuwied over executions","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bundesanwaltschaft nimmt Ibrahim A.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bundesanwaltschaft nimmt Ibrahim A. in Neuwied fest. Vorwurf: Hinrichtung von drei Gefangenen in Syrien 2015. Haftbefehl des BGH.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Federal Prosecutor's Office has arrested Ibrahim A. in Neuwied. The accusation is the execution of three prisoners in Syria in 2015. Arrest warrant from the Federal Court of Justice.","context_en":"The Federal Prosecutor's Office has arrested Ibrahim A. in Neuwied. The accusation is the execution of three prisoners in Syria in 2015. Arrest warrant from the Federal Court of Justice.","lang":"de","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NIUS","url":"https://nius.de/kriminalitaet/syrer-festnahme-kriegsverbrechen-syrien-2015-neuwied","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"403189ed8f54","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:53:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwán realizará diez días de maniobras militares en el norte de la isla ante un hipotético ataque del régimen chino","headline":"Taiwan to conduct 10 days of military drills in north of island ahead of hypothetical Chinese regime attack","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El programa Lu Sheng 2 tendrá diez jornadas y nueve noches sin interrupción, con una primera fase de movilización y posteriores simulaciones bélicas entre las fuerzas reunidas","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El programa Lu Sheng 2 tendrá diez jornadas y nueve noches sin interrupción, con una primera fase de movilización y posteriores simulaciones bélicas entre las fuerzas reunidas","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Lu Sheng 2 program will have ten days and nine uninterrupted nights, with an initial mobilization phase and subsequent war simulations among the gathered forces.","context_en":"The Lu Sheng 2 program will have ten days and nine uninterrupted nights, with an initial mobilization phase and subsequent war simulations among the gathered forces.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/mundo/2026/09/30/taiwan-realizara-diez-dias-de-maniobras-militares-en-el-norte-de-la-isla-ante-un-hipotetico-ataque-del-regimen-chino/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5e9d94486017","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:53:44.114Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZAMBIA","what":"Zambia starts talks with visiting IMF mission on new loan programme","headline":"Zambia began talks with an IMF mission on a new loan programme on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Zambia starts talks with visiting IMF mission on new loan programme","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/africa/zambia-starts-talks-with-visiting-imf-mission-new-loan-programme-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"29c76c570253","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:50:11.265Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Near misses at Sydney airport 20% above national average, regulator finds","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Near misses at Sydney airport 20% above national average, regulator finds","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/near-misses-at-sydney-airport-20-above-national-average-regulator-finds","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/near-misses-sydney-airport-20-above-national-average-regulator-finds-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5552c2081bad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:49:48.029Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RUSSIA","what":"Russia extends diesel export ban until end of October","headline":"Russia extended its diesel export ban until the end of October on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russia extends diesel export ban until end of October","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/russia-extends-diesel-export-ban-until-end-october-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"97063dec18ea","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:49:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(2nd LD) Seoul stocks fall for 3rd day as Treasury yields rise","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- South Korean shares retreated Wednesday as rising U....","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007652320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007651320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007600320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007700320","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4ac1310f4f24","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:49:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Special counsel seeks 20-yr prison term for Daegu mayor over martial law involvement","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- A special counsel team on Wednesday requested a 20-y...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930009100315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"adf105107311","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:49:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Septiembre cierra con el ingreso del primer frente frío y lluvias torrenciales: lista de estados en alerta","headline":"September ends with the arrival of the first cold front and torrential rains: list of states on alert","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El SMN prevé que durante los primeros días de octubre el frente frío avanzará sobre el norte del país con lluvias fuertes y descenso de temperatura","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El SMN prevé que durante los primeros días de octubre el frente frío avanzará sobre el norte del país con lluvias fuertes y descenso de temperatura","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The SMN forecasts that during the first days of October the cold front will advance over the north of the country with heavy rains and a drop in temperature.","context_en":"The SMN forecasts that during the first days of October the cold front will advance over the north of the country with heavy rains and a drop in temperature.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/mexico/2026/09/30/septiembre-cierra-con-el-ingreso-del-primer-frente-frio-y-lluvias-torrenciales-lista-de-estados-en-alerta/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ccaf5c67a879","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:47:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"El descuento que se aplica a la gasolina pasa este jueves de 5 a 20 céntimos por litro","headline":"The gasoline tax discount rises from 5 to 20 cents per liter this Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Madrid, 30 sep (EFE).- El descuento sobre el impuesto de hidrocarburos que paga la gasolina pasará este jueves de los 5 céntimos actuales a 20 céntimos por litro, tal y como recoge el real decreto ley de medidas para…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Madrid, 30 sep (EFE).- El descuento sobre el impuesto de hidrocarburos que paga la gasolina pasará este jueves de los 5 céntimos actuales a 20 céntimos por litro, tal y como recoge el real decreto ley de medidas para afrontar las consecuencias del conflicto en Irán publicado este miércoles en el BOE.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The discount on the hydrocarbons tax paid on gasoline will increase this Thursday from the current 5 cents to 20 cents per liter, as set out in the royal decree law on measures to address the consequences of the conflict in Iran, published this Wednesday in the BOE.","context_en":"The discount on the hydrocarbons tax paid on gasoline will increase this Thursday from the current 5 cents to 20 cents per liter, as set out in the royal decree law on measures to address the consequences of the conflict in Iran, published this Wednesday in the BOE.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/09/30/el-descuento-que-se-aplica-a-la-gasolina-pasa-este-jueves-de-5-a-20-centimos-por-litro/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"de1a85a9f938","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:46:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"La Mesa del Congreso califica y envía a los grupos los decretos de vivienda","headline":"Congress Board qualifies and sends housing decrees to parliamentary groups","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Madrid, 30 sep (EFE).- La Mesa del Congreso calificará y enviará durante esta mañana a los grupos parlamentarios los dos decretos de vivienda aprobados por el Consejo de Ministros este martes.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Madrid, 30 sep (EFE).- La Mesa del Congreso calificará y enviará durante esta mañana a los grupos parlamentarios los dos decretos de vivienda aprobados por el Consejo de Ministros este martes. Según han informado fuentes parlamentarias, se trata de un paso necesario antes de que puedan someterse a debate y votación el viernes, como ha solicitado el Gobierno. Los dos decretos han sido recibidos en el Congreso esta madrugada.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Madrid, 30 Sep (EFE) - The Congress Board will qualify and send to the parliamentary groups this morning the two housing decrees approved by the Council of Ministers on Tuesday. According to parliamentary sources, this is a necessary step before they can be debated and voted on Friday, as requested by the Government. The two decrees were received by Congress early this morning.","context_en":"Madrid, 30 Sep (EFE) - The Congress Board will qualify and send to the parliamentary groups this morning the two housing decrees approved by the Council of Ministers on Tuesday. According to parliamentary sources, this is a necessary step before they can be debated and voted on Friday, as requested by the Government. The two decrees were received by Congress early this morning.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/09/30/la-mesa-del-congreso-califica-y-envia-a-los-grupos-los-decretos-de-vivienda/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"80af1ad74a1b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:46:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Banks raise interest rates after RBA lifts cash rate to highest since 2011","headline":"Australia's big four banks raised interest rates after the RBA lifted its cash rate to the highest since 2011","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Australia's big four banks announce interest rate rises after the Reserve Bank of Australia lifted the cash rate to its highest level in more than a decade.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Australia's big four banks announce interest rate rises after the Reserve Bank of Australia lifted the cash rate to its highest level in more than a decade.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/major-banks-raise-interest-rates-after-rba-cash-rate/107206946","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"36471adb0790","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:46:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMSTERDAM","what":"Amsterdamse proef met medicijn voor crackverslaafden stilgelegd na ingrijpen inspectie","headline":"Amsterdam trial with medicine for crack addicts halted after inspectorate intervention","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Een Amsterdamse proef waarbij crackverslaafden worden behandeld met het medicijn dexamfetamine is voorlopig stilgelegd.","quote":"Er loopt momenteel een toezichtprocedure over de productie van geneesmiddelen door het betrokken ziekenhuis","quote_en":"There is currently a supervision procedure underway regarding the production of medicines by the hospital involved.","context":"Een Amsterdamse proef waarbij crackverslaafden worden behandeld met het medicijn dexamfetamine is voorlopig stilgelegd. De Inspectie Gezondheidszorg en Jeugd (IGJ) heeft de productie van het middel stopgezet. Amsterdam doet mee aan een onderzoek naar de inzet van dexamfetamine bij de behandeling van mensen die verslaafd zijn aan crack. Dexamfetamine wordt normaal gebruikt bij ADHD, maar onderzoekers bekijken of het ook kan helpen om de afhankelijkheid van crack te verminderen, schrijft stadsomroep AT5 . Volgens de gemeente kregen de eerste deelnemers het medicijn inmiddels toegediend.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"An Amsterdam trial in which crack addicts are treated with the drug dexamfetamine has been temporarily halted. The Health and Youth Care Inspectorate (IGJ) has stopped the production of the medicine.","context_en":"An Amsterdam trial in which crack addicts are treated with the drug dexamfetamine has been temporarily halted. The Health and Youth Care Inspectorate (IGJ) has stopped the production of the medicine.","lang":"nl","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633104","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"16b9b0c81e27","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:45:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SLOVAKIA","what":"El Gobierno eslovaco se tambalea tras moción que tumba al vice primer ministro","headline":"Slovak government wobbles after motion ousts deputy prime minister","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Viena, 30 sep (EFE).- El Gobierno de Eslovaquia, una coalición tripartita encabezada por el populista de izquierda Robert Fico, ha sufrido un fuerte revés al prosperar una moción de censura contra el vice primer minis…","quote":"decidir los próximos pasos","quote_en":"decide the next steps","context":"Viena, 30 sep (EFE).- El Gobierno de Eslovaquia, una coalición tripartita encabezada por el populista de izquierda Robert Fico, ha sufrido un fuerte revés al prosperar una moción de censura contra el vice primer ministro Tomas Taraba con siete votos de diputados de su propio partido, situación que podría desembocar en elecciones anticipadas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The government of Slovakia, a three-party coalition led by left-wing populist Robert Fico, has suffered a major setback after a motion of censure against Deputy Prime Minister Tomas Taraba succeeded with seven votes from deputies of his own party, a situation that could lead to early elections.","context_en":"The government of Slovakia, a three-party coalition led by left-wing populist Robert Fico, has suffered a major setback after a motion of censure against Deputy Prime Minister Tomas Taraba succeeded with seven votes from deputies of his own party, a situation that could lead to early elections.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/30/el-gobierno-eslovaco-se-tambalea-tras-mocion-que-tumba-al-vice-primer-ministro/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4156e4d271a2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:45:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SPAIN","what":"Sumar exige que se publique ya el segundo decreto de vivienda y apela al voto a favor de Podemos","headline":"Sumar demands immediate publication of second housing decree and appeals to Podemos to vote in favor","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El portavoz de Izquierda Unida (IU) y diputado de Sumar, Enrique Santiago, ha exigido que se publique \"de inmediato\" en el Boletín Oficial del Estado (BOE) el segundo decreto de vivienda que hace referencia a la prórr…","quote":"Siempre hay que votar lo que sea mejor para la clase trabajadora","quote_en":"We must always vote for what is best for the working class.","context":"El portavoz de Izquierda Unida (IU) y diputado de Sumar, Enrique Santiago, ha exigido que se publique \"de inmediato\" en el Boletín Oficial del Estado (BOE) el segundo decreto de vivienda que hace referencia a la prórroga automática de los contratos de alquiler, al tiempo que ha apelado al voto a favor de Podemos de las propuestas del Gobierno: \"Siempre hay que votar lo que sea mejor para la clase trabajadora\".","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The spokesperson for Izquierda Unida (IU) and Sumar deputy Enrique Santiago has demanded that the second housing decree referring to the automatic extension of rental contracts be published \"immediately\" in the Boletín Oficial del Estado (BOE), while appealing to Podemos to vote in favor of the government's proposals.","context_en":"The spokesperson for Izquierda Unida (IU) and Sumar deputy Enrique Santiago has demanded that the second housing decree referring to the automatic extension of rental contracts be published \"immediately\" in the Boletín Oficial del Estado (BOE), while appealing to Podemos to vote in favor of the government's proposals.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/espana/agencias/2026/09/30/sumar-exige-que-se-publique-ya-el-segundo-decreto-de-vivienda-y-apela-al-voto-a-favor-de-podemos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"88175963cd06","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:45:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOKYO","what":"Japón investigará las populares cafeterías con animales ante la inquietud por su salud","headline":"Japan to investigate popular animal cafes over concerns for their welfare","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tokio, 30 sep (EFE).- Japón se dispone a lanzar su primera investigación nacional sobre las populares cafeterías con animales, en las que los clientes pueden interactuar con todo tipo de mascotas, debido a las preocup…","quote":"Ha habido preocupación sobre el trato a los animales en esos cafés, y también inquietud por las enfermedades contagiosas en las reuniones de expertos que hemos tenido","quote_en":"There has been concern about the treatment of animals in those cafes, and also concern about contagious diseases in the expert meetings we have had.","context":"Tokio, 30 sep (EFE).- Japón se dispone a lanzar su primera investigación nacional sobre las populares cafeterías con animales, en las que los clientes pueden interactuar con todo tipo de mascotas, debido a las preocupaciones por su bienestar, afirmó a EFE una fuente gubernamental este miércoles. \"Ha habido preocupación sobre el trato a los animales en esos cafés, y también inquietud por las enfermedades contagiosas en las reuniones de expertos que hemos tenido\", señaló el director de la Oficina de Bienestar y Gestión Animal del Ministerio de Medio Ambiente japonés, Takuya Ishikawa.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Tokyo, 30 Sep (EFE) - Japan is set to launch its first national investigation into popular animal cafes, where customers can interact with all kinds of pets, due to concerns for their welfare, a government source told EFE on Wednesday.","context_en":"Tokyo, 30 Sep (EFE) - Japan is set to launch its first national investigation into popular animal cafes, where customers can interact with all kinds of pets, due to concerns for their welfare, a government source told EFE on Wednesday.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/30/japon-investigara-las-populares-cafeterias-con-animales-ante-la-inquietud-por-su-salud/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b18b3e2893f3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:44:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Russian UAV hits warehouse in Kyiv’s Solomianskyi District, killing one","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Russian UAV hit a warehouse building in Kyiv’s Solomianskyi district.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Russian UAV hit a warehouse building in Kyiv’s Solomianskyi district.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Russian forces have conducted repeated UAV strikes on targets inside Ukraine since the full-scale invasion began in February 2022. Kyiv has remained under periodic air attack throughout the war, with air defenses intercepting most incoming drones and missiles but debris and occasional direct hits reaching the ground.\n\nA Russian UAV struck a warehouse building in the Solomianskyi district of Kyiv at 07:44 local time on September 30 2026. The impact set a truck on fire at the site where specialists from the municipal heating company Kyivteploenergo were performing work. Kyiv Mayor Vitalii Klitschko reported the strike on Telegram and later confirmed that the truck driver, a Kyivteploenergo employee, died at the scene.\n\nOne person was killed and one injured according to the Kyiv City Military Administration. Emergency services responded to the district. In a separate incident the same morning, debris landed on the grounds of a Western embassy in the Shevchenkivskyi district of central Kyiv.","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169496-russian-uav-hits-warehouse-in-kyivs-solomianskyi-district-killing-one.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055720/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/29/8055676/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4bd6299dc0ca","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:43:45.694Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"Indonesian governor orders halt on data-centre project by Singapore's BDx due to lack of permits","headline":"Indonesian governor halted a data centre project by Singapore's BDx in Indonesia due to lack of permits","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indonesian governor orders halt on data-centre project by Singapore's BDx due to lack of permits","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/indonesian-governor-orders-halt-data-centre-project-by-singapores-bdx-due-lack-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aea0d11742e9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:43:44.157Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"French preliminary inflation up at 3.4% in September","headline":"French preliminary inflation rose to 3.4 percent in September in France","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"French preliminary inflation up at 3.4% in September","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/french-preliminary-inflation-up-34-september-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c989cbe87c88","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:42:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Woman who resigned after being put on performance improvement plan loses wrongful dismissal claim","headline":"A Singapore woman lost her wrongful dismissal case after she resigned from a job that added creative duties to her role once she passed probation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The woman's role was expanded shortly after she passed her probation period to include creative functions, for which she was found to be lacking in a later performance improvement plan.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The woman's role was expanded shortly after she passed her probation period to include creative functions, for which she was found to be lacking in a later performance improvement plan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/woman-performance-improvement-plan-lose-wrongful-dismissal-6420721","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"680c7ce310ef","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:38:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ESLÖV","what":"Två personer hittade döda i bostad i Eslöv","headline":"Two people found dead in apartment in Eslöv","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Under onsdagsmorgonen hittades två personer, en man och en kvinna, döda i en bostad i Eslöv.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Under onsdagsmorgonen hittades två personer, en man och en kvinna, döda i en bostad i Eslöv. En stor polisinsats pågår i bostadsområdet och polisen utreder mord.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Two people, a man and a woman, were found dead in an apartment in Eslöv on Wednesday morning. A large police operation is underway in the residential area and police are investigating murder.","context_en":"Two people, a man and a woman, were found dead in an apartment in Eslöv on Wednesday morning. A large police operation is underway in the residential area and police are investigating murder.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/skane/polisinsats-i-bostadsomrade-i-eslov","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"049d8f48196f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MITO","what":"Ex-boyfriend sentenced to 20 years in prison over murder of nail artist","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 29-year-old killed his ex-girlfriend after sending her a stuffed toy with a tracking device hidden inside.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 29-year-old killed his ex-girlfriend after sending her a stuffed toy with a tracking device hidden inside.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/30/japan/crime-legal/mito-murder-ruling-nail-artist/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8cd1998eb8f4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:37:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH AFRICA","what":"CAN 2027 : les Léopards en préparation en Afrique du Sud avant deux matchs amicaux contre l’Ouganda","headline":"CAN 2027: DR Congo's Leopards begin preparation in South Africa ahead of two friendlies against Uganda","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Les Léopards messieurs de la RDC ont entamé mardi 29 septembre en Afrique du Sud la deuxième étape de leur stage de préparation aux éliminatoires de la Coupe d’Afrique des nations (CAN) 2027.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Les Léopards messieurs de la RDC ont entamé mardi 29 septembre en Afrique du Sud la deuxième étape de leur stage de préparation aux éliminatoires de la Coupe d’Afrique des nations (CAN) 2027. Ce regroupement se poursuivra jusqu’au 6 octobre. Durant ce stage, la sélection congolaise disputera deux matches amicaux contre l’Ouganda, les 2 et 6 octobre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The DR Congo men's national team, the Leopards, began the second phase of their preparation camp for the 2027 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers on Tuesday 29 September in South Africa. The camp will continue until 6 October. During this stage the Congolese side will play two friendly matches against Uganda on 2 and 6 October.","context_en":"The DR Congo men's national team, the Leopards, began the second phase of their preparation camp for the 2027 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers on Tuesday 29 September in South Africa. The camp will continue until 6 October. During this stage the Congolese side will play two friendly matches against Uganda on 2 and 6 October.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/sport/can-2027-les-leopards-en-preparation-en-afrique-du-sud-avant-deux-matchs","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"00f541fac896","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:37:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ABIA","what":"Abia begins construction of Umuahia 15MVA injection substation","headline":"Abia state in Nigeria began building the Umuahia 15MVA injection substation on Monday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Commissioner for Information, Okey Kanu, disclosed this on Monday while briefing reporters at the Government House on the outcome of Monday’s state Executive Council meeting.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Commissioner for Information, Okey Kanu, disclosed this on Monday while briefing reporters at the Government House on the outcome of Monday’s state Executive Council meeting.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/913460-abia-begins-construction-of-umuahia-15mva-injection-substation.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f6976b595802","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:36:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"(Asiad) S. Korea finishes 4th in men's compound archery team event","headline":"South Korea placed fourth in the men's compound archery team event at the Asiad in Japan on Sept. 30","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"OKAZAKI, Japan, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- South Korea finished fourth in the men's te...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930009500315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1be4bfa46761","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:36:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"Grote politie-actie in Duitsland tegen witwasnetwerk en leden Hells Angels","headline":"Large police operation in Germany targets money-laundering network and Hells Angels members","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De politie in Duitsland is bezig met een grote inval bij de motorclub Hells Angels.","quote":"landelijk en Europees opererend witwasnetwerk","quote_en":"nationwide and European operating money-laundering network","context":"De politie in Duitsland is bezig met een grote inval bij de motorclub Hells Angels. Met meer dan 1000 agenten zijn ongeveer 140 gebouwen doorzocht, melden Duitse media. Ook Nederland is bij het onderzoek betrokken. Persbureau DPA meldt dat de autoriteiten bezittingen ter waarde van 49 miljoen euro in beslag willen nemen. Het onderzoek richt zich op meer dan 70 verdachten. De opsporingsdiensten in Duitsland zeggen dat de verdachten behoren tot een een \"landelijk en Europees opererend witwasnetwerk\" en dat het \"hooggeplaatste leden van een motorclub\" zijn.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"German police are conducting a major raid on the Hells Angels motorcycle club. More than 1,000 officers have searched about 140 buildings, German media report. The Netherlands is also involved in the investigation. News agency DPA reports that authorities intend to seize assets worth 49 million euros. The probe focuses on more than 70 suspects.","context_en":"German police are conducting a major raid on the Hells Angels motorcycle club. More than 1,000 officers have searched about 140 buildings, German media report. The Netherlands is also involved in the investigation. News agency DPA reports that authorities intend to seize assets worth 49 million euros. The probe focuses on more than 70 suspects.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633100","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"06314edd87a5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:36:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CZECHIA","what":"Czechia would send two brigades in event of Russian attack on Baltics, PM says","headline":"Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis said Czechia would send two mechanised brigades if Russia attacked the Baltic states on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Czechia would send two mechanised brigades in case of a Russian attack against the Baltic states, the country’s Prime Minister Andrej Babiš told a local news website on Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Czechia would send two mechanised brigades in case of a Russian attack against the Baltic states, the country’s Prime Minister Andrej Babiš told a local news website on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068118/czechia-would-send-two-brigades-in-event-of-russian-attack-on-baltics-pm-says","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"230123a863dd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:33:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZHYTOMYR","what":"Civilian infrastructure, energy facilities damaged in Russian attacks on Zhytomyr region","headline":"Russian attacks damaged civilian infrastructure and energy facilities in Ukraine's Zhytomyr region on September 29 and 30","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russian forces attacked seven civilian infrastructure and energy facilities in three districts of Zhytomyr region from the evening of September 29 through the night of September 30.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russian forces attacked seven civilian infrastructure and energy facilities in three districts of Zhytomyr region from the evening of September 29 through the night of September 30.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055723/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169475-civilian-infrastructure-energy-facilities-damaged-in-russian-attacks-on-zhytomyr-region.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b5fd20d672aa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:31:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AKWA IBOM","what":"PIND inaugurates conflict prevention council in Akwa Ibom oil community","headline":"PIND set up an eight-member conflict prevention council in Onna in Akwa Ibom state Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PIND has inaugurated an eight-member Conflict Prevention Council in Akwa Ibom’s Onna LGA, strengthening community-led mechanisms for early warning, mediation and conflict prevention.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PIND has inaugurated an eight-member Conflict Prevention Council in Akwa Ibom’s Onna LGA, strengthening community-led mechanisms for early warning, mediation and conflict prevention.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000073","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/more-news/913450-pind-inaugurates-conflict-prevention-council-in-akwa-ibom-oil-community.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c1bdc6a316c1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:30:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OVERASSELT","what":"Opnieuw verdachten aangehouden in onderzoek naar geweld Overasselt","headline":"New suspects arrested in investigation into violence in Overasselt","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In het onderzoek naar het geweld in Overasselt zijn nieuwe aanhoudingen verricht, laat de politie weten in een persbericht .","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In het onderzoek naar het geweld in Overasselt zijn nieuwe aanhoudingen verricht, laat de politie weten in een persbericht . Het gaat om mannen van 24 en 25 jaar uit Amsterdam. De twee werden maandag aangehouden. Ze worden verdacht van betrokkenheid bij de gebeurtenissen in Overasselt. Tegelijk met de arrestaties waren er doorzoekingen in Diemen, Hoofddorp en Amsterdam, laat de politie weten. Daarbij zijn onder meer twee vuurwapens in beslag genomen, waarvan een automatisch. In de woning waar de vuurwapens werden gevonden is een 19-jarige man uit Amsterdam aangehouden.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In the investigation into the violence in Overasselt, new arrests have been made, police said in a press release. The two men, aged 24 and 25 from Amsterdam, were arrested on Monday. They are suspected of involvement in the events in Overasselt. At the same time as the arrests, searches were carried out in Diemen, Hoofddorp and Amsterdam. Two firearms were seized, one of which was automatic. A","context_en":"In the investigation into the violence in Overasselt, new arrests have been made, police said in a press release. The two men, aged 24 and 25 from Amsterdam, were arrested on Monday. They are suspected of involvement in the events in Overasselt. At the same time as the arrests, searches were carried out in Diemen, Hoofddorp and Amsterdam. Two firearms were seized, one of which was automatic. A","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633098","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4468c35bead5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:26:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UZBEKISTAN","what":"Pakistani special forces participate in joint training exercise Eternal Brotherhood-5","headline":"Azerbaijan joined Turkish, Pakistani and Uzbek special forces in the Eternal Brotherhood-5 training exercise in Uzbekistan from Sept 13 to 25 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Special forces from the armed forces participated in the multinational exercise Eternal Brotherhood-5, held in Uzbekistan from Sept 13 to 25, 2026, state-run PTV reported.","quote":"enhance cooperation, communication and professional capabilities among special forces","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Special forces from the armed forces participated in the multinational exercise Eternal Brotherhood-5, held in Uzbekistan from Sept 13 to 25, 2026, state-run PTV reported. Turkiye, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan also took part in the exercise, while Kazakhstan attended as an observer country, according to PTV. The joint exercise aimed to “enhance cooperation, communication and professional capabilities among special forces”, PTV reported. The participating forces also exchanged experiences on modern operations, combat strategies and ways to address security challenges.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033724/pakistani-special-forces-participate-in-joint-training-exercise-eternal-brotherhood-5","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eadc95ee36d6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:24:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TØNDER","what":"Hele bestyrelsen i DF i Tønder er gået af","headline":"Entire DF board in Tønder has resigned","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Forleden blev den tidligere lokalformand ekskluderet, og i weekenden forlod to byrådsmedlemmer partiet.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Forleden blev den tidligere lokalformand ekskluderet, og i weekenden forlod to byrådsmedlemmer partiet.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The former local chairman was excluded the other day, and two city council members left the party over the weekend.","context_en":"The former local chairman was excluded the other day, and two city council members left the party over the weekend.","lang":"da","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/hele-bestyrelsen-i-df-i-toender-er-gaaet-af","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"51d9fa0b7e75","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:23:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Endnu en rumæner udleveret i drabssag","headline":"Another Romanian extradited in murder case","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Endnu en rumæner udleveret i drabssag","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Another Romanian has been extradited in a murder case.","context_en":"Another Romanian has been extradited in a murder case.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/endnu-en-rumaener-udleveret-i-drabssag","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8295e523e3ba","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:19:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Times Car Rental says data breach affected 6.6 million accounts","headline":"Times Car Rental said a data breach hit 6.6 million accounts in Japan and let hackers access 1.6 million documents with personal verification images","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The firm said 1.6 million documents had been accessed, including images that the company used to verify personal information.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The firm said 1.6 million documents had been accessed, including images that the company used to verify personal information.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/30/japan/crime-legal/times-car-rental-hack/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ddc996e9877b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:18:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Kyiv shrouded in heavy smog following Russian attack","headline":"Russian attack left Kyiv Ukraine under heavy smog on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Heavy smog has blanketed Kyiv following Russian attacks.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Heavy smog has blanketed Kyiv following Russian attacks.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055718/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169465-kyiv-shrouded-in-heavy-smog-following-russian-attack.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6b85a1790ba4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:17:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"(2nd LD) S. Korea blames N.K. for DMZ mine blast; UNC cites armistice breach over active mine","headline":"South Korea blamed North Korea for a mine blast at the DMZ on Sept. 30 and the UNC cited an armistice breach","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- South Korea blamed North Korea on Wednesday for last...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930003852315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-corea-del-norte-niega-estar-detras-explosion-mina-zona-fronteriza-desmilitarizada-1093927.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"966eb2cee3b8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:13:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EUROPE","what":"Borsa: l'Europa apre in moderato rialzo, lente su inflazione e Medio Oriente","headline":"Stock markets: Europe opens moderately higher, cautious on inflation and Middle East","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Londra (+0,41%), Francoforte (+0,36%), Parigi (-0,02%)","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Londra (+0,41%), Francoforte (+0,36%), Parigi (-0,02%)","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"London (+0.41%), Frankfurt (+0.36%), Paris (-0.02%).","context_en":"London (+0.41%), Frankfurt (+0.36%), Paris (-0.02%).","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/borsa-leuropa-apre-in-moderato-rialzo-lente-su-inflazione-e-medio-oriente_352ca843-e62f-456d-b678-8cb9701cbafa.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"155d4d2e9b8c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Debris from aerial asset found at embassy of a Western country in Kyiv after Russian attack","headline":"Debris from an aerial asset landed at a Western country's embassy in Kyiv, Ukraine after a Russian attack","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Debris from an unidentified aerial asset has been discovered at an embassy of a Western country in central Kyiv following a massive overnight Russian attack, according to Mayor Vitali Klitschko.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Debris from an unidentified aerial asset has been discovered at an embassy of a Western country in central Kyiv following a massive overnight Russian attack, according to Mayor Vitali Klitschko.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055729/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4c38779fae32","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:06:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Borsa: Milano apre in rialzo dello 0,11%","headline":"Milan stock market opens up 0.11%","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Il primo indice Ftse Mib a 51.861 punti","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Il primo indice Ftse Mib a 51.861 punti","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The first Ftse Mib index at 51,861 points.","context_en":"The first Ftse Mib index at 51,861 points.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/borsa-milano-apre-in-rialzo-dello-011_28e241b9-ddb0-467a-a94f-e360edfd2a40.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/30/el-ibex-35-sube-un-06-en-la-apertura-y-supera-los-19600-puntos-con-el-petroleo-a-mas-de-103-dolares/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/29/borsa-milano-apre-in-rialzo-dello-03_c7fa951d-dfa0-4048-95b4-b15294a7766b.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"78f8675a9225","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:04:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Massive attack on Kyiv leaves two killed, five injured","headline":"Russia hit Kyiv in Ukraine with missiles and drones on September 30 and killed two people, injuring five","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The casualty toll from Russia’s missile and drone attack on Kyiv on September 30 has risen to seven, including two fatalities.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The casualty toll from Russia’s missile and drone attack on Kyiv on September 30 has risen to seven, including two fatalities.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Russia has struck Ukrainian cities with missiles and drones on a near-weekly basis since the fall of 2022, when its initial attempt to seize Kyiv in the opening weeks of the invasion collapsed. Ukrainian air defenses have intercepted most incoming weapons aimed at the capital in the years since, though strikes still reach the city at times and produce casualties on the ground.\n\nOn September 30, 2026, a fresh wave of Russian missiles and drones hit Kyiv. The city’s casualty count from that specific barrage climbed to seven people, two of them dead and five wounded.\n\nUkrainian officials continue to log the effects of the latest strike while air defenses remain on alert for further Russian launches. The exchange of long-range strikes between the two sides now turns on the pace of each side’s production of missiles and drones and on the ability of Ukrainian interceptors to meet them over the capital.","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055701/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20260930-live-several-people-killed-as-russia-launches-new-round-of-strikes-on-kyiv","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrinform","url":"https://www.ukrinform.net/rubric-ato/4169457-massive-attack-on-kyiv-leaves-two-killed-five-injured.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055730/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055698/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055691/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1547382ab9e0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"THAILAND","what":"Toyota car plants, Thai Airways cargo hit by Thailand floods","headline":"Floods shut four Toyota plants and Thai Airways cargo operations in Thailand","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Floods in Thailand have caused the temporary shutdown of four Toyota plants and suspension of cargo operations of flag carrie Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Floods in Thailand have caused the temporary shutdown of four Toyota plants and suspension of cargo operations of flag carrie Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86790","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"184357588af4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T07:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Nelsen v. Pike","headline":"United States Supreme Court issued opinion in Nelsen v. Pike on September 30 2026 in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Supreme Court opinion.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Supreme Court opinion. Cite as: 609 U. S. ____ (2026) 1 SOTOMAYOR, J., dissenting SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES _________________ No. 26A428 _________________ KENNETH NELSEN, WARDEN v. CHRISTA GAIL PIKE ON APPLICATION TO VACATE STAY [September 30, 2026] The application to vacate stay of execution of sentence of death presented to JUSTICE KAVANAUGH Original document","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Supreme Court (CourtListener)","url":"https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/10994652/nelsen-v-pike/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7497460c87bc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:58:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuania plans first activation of state reserve during mobilisation exercise","headline":"Lithuania will activate its state reserve for the first time in the Vytis Vault 2026 mobilisation exercise to feed some participants with oil, groats and flour","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lithuania plans to activate its state reserve for the first time during the Vytis Vault 2026 mobilisation exercise, using stocks of oil, groats and flour to feed some participants.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lithuania plans to activate its state reserve for the first time during the Vytis Vault 2026 mobilisation exercise, using stocks of oil, groats and flour to feed some participants.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000073","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3068092/lithuania-plans-first-activation-of-state-reserve-during-mobilisation-exercise","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"872a08b05074","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:57:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"OPmobility agrees to buy Hyundai Mobis' lighting unit for $443 million","headline":"OPmobility signed a deal to buy Hyundai Mobis lighting unit for 443 million dollars","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"OPmobility agrees to buy Hyundai Mobis' lighting unit for $443 million","summary":"OPmobility reached a final agreement to buy the lighting business of Hyundai Mobis. The French car parts maker will pay an enterprise value of 600 billion Korean won. That equals 443 million dollars. The deal was announced on September 30.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/opmobility-agrees-buy-hyundai-mobis-lighting-unit-443-million-6420716","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"efc9e2ef812e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:54:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Six five-star hotels fined for food safety violations: TFDA","headline":"Taiwan's Food and Drug Administration fined six five-star hotels NT$466,000 for food safety violations on Sept 30","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Taiwan's Food and Drug Administration (TFDA) has fined six five-star hotels a total of NT$466,000 (US$14,615) for food safety and hygiene violations, the administration said Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300009","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f0b91781e4e9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:51:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Pay a fee, skip the line: More Japan restaurants introduce fast-pass services","headline":"More Japan restaurants let customers pay a fee to skip the line as of Sept 18","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"One service has been adopted by 104 stores in 20 prefectures across Japan as of Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"One service has been adopted by 104 stores in 20 prefectures across Japan as of Sept. 18, according to its operator.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:10000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/30/japan/restaurant-fast-pass-popularity/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c422318cce1b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:49:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OHIO","what":"Ohio cancer patient sues hospital after surgeon allegedly amputated wrong leg","headline":"An Ohio cancer patient sued a hospital after a surgeon amputated her healthy leg instead of the one doctors had marked for removal","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"An Ohio woman is now a double amputee after her surgeon allegedly chopped off the wrong leg when she underwent a required amputation procedure.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"An Ohio woman is now a double amputee after her surgeon allegedly chopped off the wrong leg when she underwent a required amputation procedure.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/ohio-cancer-patient-sues-hospital-surgeon-allegedly-amputated-wrong-leg","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3071f167ae14","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:49:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"After 35 years in the country, Toys R Us plans to exit Japan","headline":"Toys R Us will close its 150 stores and leave Japan after 35 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Toys R Us-Japan currently runs a total of some 150 Toys R Us toy stores and Babies R Us baby goods stores across the nation.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Toys R Us-Japan currently runs a total of some 150 Toys R Us toy stores and Babies R Us baby goods stores across the nation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/business/2026/09/30/companies/toys-r-us-japan-exit/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f6f22d61815e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:47:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW SOUTH WALES","what":"Hostage watches as notorious bank robber is sentenced 29 years later","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Alexander Robert Macdonald, who shot a man to steal his identity in the 1990s while committing dozens of bank robberies, has been sentenced for more historical offences.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Alexander Robert Macdonald, who shot a man to steal his identity in the 1990s while committing dozens of bank robberies, has been sentenced for more historical offences.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/alexander-robert-macdonald-sentence-hostage-bank-robberies/107003702","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b2bec9547520","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MOLDOVA","what":"Drone crashes and explodes in Moldova – video","headline":"A drone flew through Moldova on 30 September and exploded near Hîrbovăț in Anenii Noi District with no casualties reported","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A drone flew through Moldovan airspace on 30 September before crashing and exploding near Hîrbovăț in Anenii Noi District.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A drone flew through Moldovan airspace on 30 September before crashing and exploding near Hîrbovăț in Anenii Noi District. No casualties have been reported.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055725/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"69efbcf46662","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:44:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW ZEALAND","what":"'Significant change': NZ Film Commission scraps major source of funding for organisations","headline":"New Zealand Film Commission ended its Core Funding Programme that ran for more than 20 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Core Funding Programme has existed in different forms for more than two decades","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Core Funding Programme has existed in different forms for more than two decades","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/community/1663345/significant-change-nz-film-commission-scraps-major-source-of-funding-for-organisations","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8454a46a531f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:41:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOMALIA","what":"Somali pirates killed oil tanker crew before rescue, official tells BBC","headline":"Somali pirates killed an oil tanker crew in Puntland, Somalia before a rescue, an official told the BBC","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Piracy off the Somali coast has increased in recent years after dropping when international naval operations began in 2011.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Piracy off the Somali coast has increased in recent years after dropping when international naval operations began in 2011.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/crjw5jp2de7go?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"50837adf39d9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:39:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BEIJING","what":"China factory activity returns to growth in September","headline":"Factory activity in China grew again in September after Beijing announced a stimulus package","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The data came after Beijing announced a stimulus package to offset economic strains and low spending.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The data came after Beijing announced a stimulus package to offset economic strains and low spending.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/east-asia/china-factory-activity-growth-september-6420671","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"96612cd6ad2b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:34:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"OHIO","what":"Former American Idol contestant guilty of fatally shooting wife","headline":"Caleb Flynn a former American Idol contestant was found guilty of murdering his wife in Ohio","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"It took just a few hours for the jury to reach a guilty verdict in Flynn's murder trial after two weeks of evidence, including the testimony of his mistress, AI-generated love songs and thousands of text messages.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"It took just a few hours for the jury to reach a guilty verdict in Flynn's murder trial after two weeks of evidence, including the testimony of his mistress, AI-generated love songs and thousands of text messages.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/verdict-reached-american-idol-alum-caleb-flynn-murder-trial","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/us/caleb-flynn-verdict-murder-wife.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/nation/crime/jury-finds-former-american-idol-contestant-caleb-flynn-guilty-murder-his-wife?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/caleb-flynn-murder-trial-verdict-american-idol-wife/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/caleb-flynn-american-idol-found-guilty-wife-murder/107210462","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1ac899d8358c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:30:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GWANGJU","what":"Man sentenced to life in prison for murdering high school student in Gwangju","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"GWANGJU, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"GWANGJU, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- A court on Wednesday sentenced a 23-year-old man t...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007800315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"379ae8121fc6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Court rules voice is protected as publicity right in AI cloning case","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Japanese court ruled Wednesday that voices are protected as a publicity right, similar to portrait rights, in the first such rul Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Japanese court ruled Wednesday that voices are protected as a publicity right, similar to portrait rights, in the first such rul Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.411},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/east-asia/japan-court-rules-human-voice-is-protected-in-tiktok-ai-case","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/30/japan/crime-legal/voice-actor-lawsuit-ai-tiktok/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86781","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"51b296791a1b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:25:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Israeli scientists push frontiers of oil-spill cleanup technology","headline":"Israeli scientists in Israel developed an aerogel sponge that absorbs 80 times its weight in crude oil and helps bacteria break down pollutants","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Ben-Gurion University team has developed an aerogel “sponge” that can absorb about 80 times its weight in crude oil while helping bacteria break down the pollutants.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Ben-Gurion University team has developed an aerogel “sponge” that can absorb about 80 times its weight in crude oil while helping bacteria break down the pollutants.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/feature/israeli-scientists-push-frontiers-of-oil-spill-cleanup-technology","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"66a19ade2ba5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:25:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED KINGDOM","what":"Britse media: verdachte mogelijk terreurplan bij Britse RAF-basis belde zelf de politie","headline":"British media: suspect possibly plotting terror attack at RAF base called police himself","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Een van de mannen die zondag werden gearresteerd bij een Britse luchtmachtbasis op verdenking van het voorbereiden van een terroristische aanslag, belde zelf de politie.","quote":"Dat zou ik niet gedaan hebben","quote_en":"I wouldn't have done that","context":"Een van de mannen die zondag werden gearresteerd bij een Britse luchtmachtbasis op verdenking van het voorbereiden van een terroristische aanslag, belde zelf de politie. Dat melden Britse media . De verdachte belde in de nacht van zaterdag op zondag het Britse alarmnummer 999, waarna de groep werd gearresteerd. Volgens eerdere berichten had een telefoontje van een boerin uit de buurt de politie gealarmeerd. Zij belde de politie nadat ze drie verdachte witte busjes bij de basis had gezien.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"One of the men arrested on Sunday at a British air force base on suspicion of preparing a terrorist attack called the police himself. That is what British media report. The suspect called the British emergency number 999 in the night from Saturday to Sunday, after which the group was arrested.","context_en":"One of the men arrested on Sunday at a British air force base on suspicion of preparing a terrorist attack called the police himself. That is what British media report. The suspect called the British emergency number 999 in the night from Saturday to Sunday, after which the group was arrested.","lang":"nl","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":3},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910148","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633092","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c105ea7cfa6f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:25:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERTH","what":"Mammoth effort underway to remove whale carcass from Perth beach","headline":"Authorities began removing a 13-metre whale carcass that washed up at City Beach in Perth, Australia on Monday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Crowds have been cleared and heavy machinery moved in as authorities begin removing a 13-metre long whale carcass that washed up at City Beach on Monday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Crowds have been cleared and heavy machinery moved in as authorities begin removing a 13-metre long whale carcass that washed up at City Beach on Monday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/whale-carcass-removed-from-perth-city-beach/107211224","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9185314600ff","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:24:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UMEÅ","what":"Klotter i Sara Lidman-tunneln – polis utreder skadegörelse","headline":"Graffiti in Sara Lidman tunnel – police investigate vandalism","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Sara Lidman-tunneln i Umeå har utsatts för klotter under natten.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Sara Lidman-tunneln i Umeå har utsatts för klotter under natten. Polisen har upprättat en anmälan om skadegörelse.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Sara Lidman tunnel in Umeå was subjected to graffiti during the night. Police have filed a report of vandalism.","context_en":"The Sara Lidman tunnel in Umeå was subjected to graffiti during the night. Police have filed a report of vandalism.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/klotter-i-sara-lidman-tunneln-polis-utreder-skadegorelse","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9d71b44d9320","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:22:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"US troops exit Iraq after more than a decade","headline":"U.S. military ends more than two-decade presence in Iraq this week","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The current deployment began in 2014 in an effort to combat 'Islamic State' extremists.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The current deployment began in 2014 in an effort to combat 'Islamic State' extremists. Iran, which has sought a complete removal of the US military from the Middle East, celebrated the withdrawal.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/30/las-tropas-extranjeras-que-lucharon-contra-el-ei-abandonan-irak-cronologia-de-la-mision/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/us-troops-exit-iraq-after-more-than-a-decade/a-79481523?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kronen Zeitung","url":"https://www.krone.at/4314856","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NPR","url":"https://www.npr.org/2026/09/27/nx-s1-5981123/after-more-than-two-decades-u-s-forces-prepare-to-leave-iraq","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633084","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"R² Reports","url":"https://www.youtube.com/shorts/_rnCNVs_vDA","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d81609c18959","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:18:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTH WAZIRISTAN","what":"3 terrorists killed in IBO in KP's Mir Ali: state media","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Security forces killed three terrorists in an intelligence-based operation in the Mir Ali area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s North Waziristan district, state broadcaster PTV reported on Wednesday, citing security sources.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Security forces killed three terrorists in an intelligence-based operation in the Mir Ali area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s North Waziristan district, state broadcaster PTV reported on Wednesday, citing security sources. The sources added that hideouts of the Fitna al Khawarij were targeted in Mir Ali and surrounding areas. Fitna al Khawarij is a term the state uses for terrorists belonging to the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). A large quantity of weapons and ammunition was recovered from the terrorists killed during the operation, security sources said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033708/3-terrorists-killed-in-ibo-in-kps-mir-ali-state-media","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"81cc24961125","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:16:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwan shares close up 0.65%","headline":"Taiwan shares closed down 0.82 percent at 47,632 in Taipei on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) Taiwan shares ended up 308.17 points, or 0.65 percent, at 47,940.13 Wednesday on turnover of NT$875.67 billion (US$27.49 billion).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609300008","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609290008","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609300002","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a146ec7d816b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:15:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ETHIOPIA","what":"2027 AFCON qualifiers: first win for Patrick Vieira and Senegal","headline":"Patrick Vieira won his first match as Senegal manager with a 1-0 win away to Ethiopia in 2027 AFCON qualifiers","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Patrick Vieira won his first match as Senegal’s manager.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Patrick Vieira won his first match as Senegal’s manager. Senegal secured a 1-0 away victory against Ethiopia thanks to a goal from Ibrahim Mbaye.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/tv-shows/sports/20260930-2027-afcon-qualifiers-first-win-for-patrick-vieira-and-senegal","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0349a13efef3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:15:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORWAY","what":"Jonas Gahr Støre hörs om norska Epsteinkopplingarna","headline":"Jonas Gahr Støre to be questioned over Norwegian Epstein connections","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"I dag inleds ett två dagar långt förhör i det norska Stortingets konstitutionsutskott.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"I dag inleds ett två dagar långt förhör i det norska Stortingets konstitutionsutskott. Ett tiotal före detta och sittande utrikes- och biståndsministrar ska höras om den norska utrikesförvaltningens kopplingar till Epsteinärendet.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A two-day hearing begins today in the Norwegian Storting's constitutional committee. Around ten former and current foreign and development ministers are to be questioned about the Norwegian foreign service's connections to the Epstein case.","context_en":"A two-day hearing begins today in the Norwegian Storting's constitutional committee. Around ten former and current foreign and development ministers are to be questioned about the Norwegian foreign service's connections to the Epstein case.","lang":"sv","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/utrikes/jonas-gahr-store-hors-om-norska-epsteinkopplingarna","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6eac35a87f6d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:12:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"PPP ethics panel reduces lawmaker's suspension over scuffle with floor leader","headline":"South Korea's PPP ethics panel reduced a lawmaker's suspension over a scuffle with the floor leader in Seoul on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- The main opposition People Power Party (PPP) on Wedn...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930007300315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"083ca71e01ad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:12:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"IMO","what":"Imo moves to establish WASH departments in 27 LGAs","headline":"Imo state in Nigeria began setting up dedicated WASH departments in all 27 local government areas","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Imo moves to establish WASH departments in 27 LGAs By Peter Okolie The Imo Government has commenced process to establish dedicated Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) departments across its 27 Local Government Areas…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Imo moves to establish WASH departments in 27 LGAs By Peter Okolie The Imo Government has commenced process to establish dedicated Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) departments across its 27 Local Government Areas… News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/imo-moves-to-establish-wash-departments-in-27-lgas/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6cd5960d4592","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:09:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BORNO STATE","what":"Police charge five men over ‘Tinubu Must Go’ T-shirts","headline":"Police in Nigeria charged five men in Borno state with criminal conspiracy, inciting disturbance, disturbing public peace and thuggery over Tinubu Must Go T-shirts","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The five men were accused of criminal conspiracy, inciting disturbance, disturbing public peace and thuggery.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The five men were accused of criminal conspiracy, inciting disturbance, disturbing public peace and thuggery.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/top-news/913440-police-charge-five-men-over-tinubu-must-go-t-shirts.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8ffcaee96ffe","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:04:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMSTERDAM","what":"Il prezzo del gas apre in calo a 68,70 euro al megawattora","headline":"Gas price opens lower at 68.70 euros per megawatt hour","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ad Amsterdam le quotazioni scendono dell'1,1%","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ad Amsterdam le quotazioni scendono dell'1,1%","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In Amsterdam the quotations fell by 1.1%.","context_en":"In Amsterdam the quotations fell by 1.1%.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"European natural gas futures trade on the Dutch exchange in Amsterdam. The main contract there sets the benchmark price that suppliers and buyers across the continent use to hedge deliveries for the coming month.\n\nThe contract opened at 68.70 euros per megawatt hour on September 30. That price stood 1.1 percent below the previous close.\n\nThe market now sits at that level and will turn on the next round of bids that test whether buyers step in or sellers push further.","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/il-prezzo-del-gas-apre-in-calo-a-6870-euro-al-megawattora_0822563a-1ca8-45c5-8a64-3d5b652ade3e.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"90b90f19b85e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:04:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"FOCI, FG train 200 youths in construction trades","headline":"FOCI and Nigeria's education ministry trained 200 youths in construction trades in Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"FOCI, FG train 200 youths in construction trades By Angela Atabo The Federation of Construction Industry (FOCI), in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Education, has trained 200 Nigerian youths in construction…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"FOCI, FG train 200 youths in construction trades By Angela Atabo The Federation of Construction Industry (FOCI), in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Education, has trained 200 Nigerian youths in construction-related… News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/foci-fg-train-200-youths-in-construction-trades/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5e87bf4b7341","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T06:04:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORD-KIVU","what":"Masisi, l’épicentre des combats AFC/M23 - FARDC à cause de ses richesses","headline":"Masisi remains epicenter of AFC/M23 - FARDC fighting because of its riches","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Depuis plusieurs mois, le territoire de Masisi, dans la province du Nord-Kivu, reste marqué par des affrontements entre les forces armées congolaises, leurs alliés Wazalendo et les rebelles de la coalition AFC/M23, se…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Depuis plusieurs mois, le territoire de Masisi, dans la province du Nord-Kivu, reste marqué par des affrontements entre les forces armées congolaises, leurs alliés Wazalendo et les rebelles de la coalition AFC/M23, selon plusieurs sources civiles et militaires. Les combats se poursuivent notamment autour de Ngungu, Rubaya, Nyabiondo et sur l’axe menant vers Pinga, malgré les appels au cessez-le-feu.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"For several months, the Masisi territory in North Kivu province has been marked by clashes between Congolese armed forces, their Wazalendo allies and AFC/M23 rebels, according to several civilian and military sources. The fighting continues particularly around Ngungu, Rubaya, Nyabiondo and on the axis leading to Pinga, despite calls for a ceasefire.","context_en":"For several months, the Masisi territory in North Kivu province has been marked by clashes between Congolese armed forces, their Wazalendo allies and AFC/M23 rebels, according to several civilian and military sources. The fighting continues particularly around Ngungu, Rubaya, Nyabiondo and on the axis leading to Pinga, despite calls for a ceasefire.","lang":"fr","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/30/actualite/securite/masisi-lepicentre-des-combats-afcm23-fardc-cause-de-ses-richesses","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"089ad61944d9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:59:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Kyodo News Digest: Sept. 30, 2026","headline":"Japan court ruled a person's voice is protected as personal information on Sept 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The following is the latest list of selected news summaries by Kyodo News.----------Japan court rules voice is protected as public Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The following is the latest list of selected news summaries by Kyodo News.----------Japan court rules voice is protected as public Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86738","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86599","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"8818936cd958","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:58:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIRGINIA","what":"Virginia biker busted going nearly triple the speed limit to beat McDonald’s breakfast cutoff","headline":"Virginia police ticketed a motorcyclist for going 72 miles per hour in a 25-mile-per-hour zone to reach McDonald's before breakfast ended","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Police ticketed a Virginia motorcyclist for going 72 mph in a 25 mph zone as he rushed to get McDonald's breakfast before the cutoff.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Police ticketed a Virginia motorcyclist for going 72 mph in a 25 mph zone as he rushed to get McDonald's breakfast before the cutoff.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/virginia-motorcyclist-pulled-over-going-72-mph-in-25-mph-zone-to-beat-mcdonalds-breakfast-cutoff/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f415fee43adf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:56:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Politiet melder om stor hjemmeværnsøvelse","headline":"Police report large Home Guard exercise","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Politiet melder om stor hjemmeværnsøvelse","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Police report a large Home Guard exercise.","context_en":"Police report a large Home Guard exercise.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/politiet-melder-om-stor-hjemmevaernsoevelse","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"60e2892384fd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:52:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VESTFYN","what":"Overgravet kabel driller togtrafik på Vestfyn","headline":"Dug-up cable disrupts train traffic on West Funen","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Overgravet kabel driller togtrafik på Vestfyn","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A dug-up cable is disrupting train traffic on West Funen.","context_en":"A dug-up cable is disrupting train traffic on West Funen.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/overgravet-kabel-driller-togtrafik-paa-vestfyn","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"75134204aa4c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:49:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BUSAN","what":"Defense chief visits naval command center to inspect military readiness","headline":"South Korea defense minister Kang Shin-chul visited a naval command center in Busan to inspect military readiness on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- Defense Minister Kang Shin-chul on Wednesday visited...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930006900315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fab3e61a7dba","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:42:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"STORUMAN","what":"Sommarstuga brinner med öppna lågor i Storuman","headline":"Summer cottage burns with open flames in Storuman","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En sommarstuga brann med öppna lågor i Blaiken i Storumans kommun.","quote":"Huset går inte att rädda","quote_en":"The house cannot be saved","context":"En sommarstuga brann med öppna lågor i Blaiken i Storumans kommun. Lågor slog ut från både tak och fönster och byggnaden har totalförstörts. – Huset går inte att rädda, säger räddningstjänstens larmoperatör.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A summer cottage burned with open flames in Blaiken in Storuman municipality. Flames came out from both the roof and windows and the building has been totally destroyed.","context_en":"A summer cottage burned with open flames in Blaiken in Storuman municipality. Flames came out from both the roof and windows and the building has been totally destroyed.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vasterbotten/villa-brinner-med-oppna-lagor-i-storuman","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5505a154cf9b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:41:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Lee visits soldiers injured by land mine in DMZ, pledges due compensation","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 30 (Yonhap) -- President Lee Jae Myung on Wednesday paid an unexpec...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260930006800315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2124f19d3f5f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:38:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LINKÖPING","what":"”Duschkurs” väcker kritik: ”Färdigheter som behövs”","headline":"‘Shower course’ draws criticism: ‘Skills that are needed’","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Som en del i en utbildning för datastudenter på Linköpings universitet har man nu implementerat en kurs i social kompetens som fått öknamnet ”duschkursen”.","quote":"Den är relevant för en ingenjör som jobbar med andra kollegor","quote_en":"It is relevant for an engineer who works with other colleagues.","context":"Som en del i en utbildning för datastudenter på Linköpings universitet har man nu implementerat en kurs i social kompetens som fått öknamnet ”duschkursen”. – Den är relevant för en ingenjör som jobbar med andra kollegor, säger kursens examinator Aseel Berglund.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"As part of an education for computer-science students at Linköping University, a course in social competence has now been introduced that has earned the nickname ‘the shower course.’","context_en":"As part of an education for computer-science students at Linköping University, a course in social competence has now been introduced that has earned the nickname ‘the shower course.’","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/inrikes/duschkurs-vacker-kritik-fardigheter-som-behovs","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dc5ca6862d12","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:38:00.662Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHINA","what":"China adds 55% tariff to Brazil beef as imports hit quota","headline":"China put a 55 percent tariff on Brazilian beef after imports reached the quota on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"China adds 55% tariff to Brazil beef as imports hit quota","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/china/china-adds-55-tariff-brazil-beef-imports-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"55d82526f8b5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:35:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JORDAN","what":"Una camiseta de Michael Jordan usada en las Finales de 1998 se vende por 12,26 millones","headline":"A Michael Jordan jersey worn in the 1998 Finals sells for $12.26 million","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Una camiseta de Michael Jordan de las Finales NBA 1998 se vendió por 12,26 millones de dólares, estableciendo un nuevo récord en coleccionables deportivos.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Una camiseta de Michael Jordan de las Finales NBA 1998 se vendió por 12,26 millones de dólares, estableciendo un nuevo récord en coleccionables deportivos.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A Michael Jordan jersey from the 1998 NBA Finals sold for $12.26 million, setting a new record for sports collectibles.","context_en":"A Michael Jordan jersey from the 1998 NBA Finals sold for $12.26 million, setting a new record for sports collectibles.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RPP","url":"https://rpp.pe/mundo/estados-unidos/una-camiseta-de-michael-jordan-usada-en-las-finales-de-1998-se-vende-por-1226-millones-noticia-1710043","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"19f3c1929327","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:25:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Magnitude 5.9 earthquake strikes off coast of eastern Taiwan","headline":"A magnitude 5.9 earthquake struck more than 100 kilometers off eastern Taiwan at 1 p.m. on Wednesday, the Central Weather Administration said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) A magnitude 5.9 earthquake struck over 100 kilometers off the coast of eastern Taiwan at 1 p.m. Wednesday, according to the Central Weather Administration (CWA)","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300007","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/environment/magnitude-57-earthquake-strikes-off-coast-costa-rica-emsc-says-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"525f539733ac","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:24:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEMILITARISED ZONE","what":"South Korea demands apology from Pyongyang for landmine blasts that injured three","headline":"South Korea demanded an apology from North Korea after landmine blasts in the Demilitarised Zone injured three of its personnel earlier this month","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Blasts in the Demilitarised Zone (DMZ) injured three South Korean personnel earlier this month.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Blasts in the Demilitarised Zone (DMZ) injured three South Korean personnel earlier this month.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwj3dkvpm4e7o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7de5ed0d9828","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:23:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Florida teen getting haircut in middle of road for TikTok video seriously injured when pickup involved in crash strikes him","headline":"A Florida teen got seriously hurt by a pickup truck while getting a haircut in the middle of a road for a TikTok video","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Florida teen trying to go viral by getting a haircut in the middle of a busy road was seriously injured when he was clipped by a pick-up truck that had just been involved in a crash during the ill-advised late night…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Florida teen trying to go viral by getting a haircut in the middle of a busy road was seriously injured when he was clipped by a pick-up truck that had just been involved in a crash during the ill-advised late night stunt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/florida-teen-struck-by-truck-while-recording-tiktok-haircut-in-middle-of-road/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5371542904ae","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:21:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Uncapped Macpherson called up to Wallabies squad for Bledisloe tests","headline":"Australia called uncapped Macpherson into the Wallabies squad for the Bledisloe tests on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Uncapped Macpherson called up to Wallabies squad for Bledisloe tests","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/sport/uncapped-macpherson-called-up-wallabies-squad-bledisloe-tests-6420576","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bba3c84d9b2c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:20:11.582Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"THAILAND","what":"Thai August factory output rises 4.44% on year, beating forecast","headline":"Thailand factory output rose 4.44 percent in August from a year earlier and beat forecasts","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Thai August factory output rises 4.44% on year, beating forecast","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/thai-august-factory-output-rises-444-year-beating-forecast-6420581","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/thai-august-factory-output-rises-444-year-beating-forecast-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"25e2b9d00012","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:18:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Sydney Airport near-collision one of worst in 20 years, investigators say","headline":"Investigators called a near-collision at Sydney Airport in Australia one of the worst in 20 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has delivered findings on four of the six ongoing investigations into conflict investigations at Sydney Airport in recent months.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) has delivered findings on four of the six ongoing investigations into conflict investigations at Sydney Airport in recent months.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/nsw-atsb-sydney-airport-runway-conflict-preliminary-reports/107210322","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"609fb33802ce","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Russia attacks Ukraine overnight with Zircon, Oniks and Iskander missiles and 188 drones","headline":"Russia attacked Ukraine overnight with Zircon, Oniks and Iskander missiles and 188 drones","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russia attacked Ukraine overnight with Zircon/Oniks anti-ship missiles, Iskander-M/S-400 ballistic missiles and 188 drones, with air defence destroying 160 aerial assets and hits recorded at 18 locations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russia attacked Ukraine overnight with Zircon/Oniks anti-ship missiles, Iskander-M/S-400 ballistic missiles and 188 drones, with air defence destroying 160 aerial assets and hits recorded at 18 locations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055705/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/russia-ukraine-war-kyiv-strikes-national-academy-sciences/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cb4f28d82d84","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:11:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Driver, 72, arrested in NYC hit-and-run that killed ex-Nickelodeon star Kianna Underwood","headline":"A 72-year-old driver named Michael Griffiths was arrested in a Brooklyn hit-and-run that killed former Nickelodeon star Kianna Underwood, 33","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Michael Griffiths, 72, has been arrested and charged in the Brooklyn hit-and-run crash that killed former Nickelodeon star Kianna Underwood, 33.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Michael Griffiths, 72, has been arrested and charged in the Brooklyn hit-and-run crash that killed former Nickelodeon star Kianna Underwood, 33.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/driver-72-arrested-in-nyc-hit-and-run-that-killed-ex-nickelodeon-star-kianna-underwood/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"217448fe3fa1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:08:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Driver charged after 600 etomidate vape pods found hidden in car at Woodlands Checkpoint","headline":"Singapore police charged a driver with smuggling after officers found 600 etomidate vape pods hidden inside his car at Woodlands Checkpoint","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The vape pods were found wrapped in black plastic packaging and concealed within the frame of the car's centre console, says the Health Sciences Authority.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The vape pods were found wrapped in black plastic packaging and concealed within the frame of the car's centre console, says the Health Sciences Authority.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/etomidate-vape-pods-hsa-woodlands-checkpoint-6420486","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"65a17abfcf66","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:07:44.953Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"Indonesia's central bank raises bond buying in September, official says","headline":"Indonesia's central bank increased bond purchases in September, an official said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Indonesia's central bank raises bond buying in September, official says","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/indonesias-central-bank-raises-bond-buying-september-official-says-2026-09-30/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"981d1e5fe27a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:06:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH WAZIRISTAN","what":"Jirga demands end to quadcopter attacks, curfew in S. Waziristan","headline":"Tribal jirga in South Waziristan, Pakistan demanded an end to quadcopter strikes and curfew on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SOUTH WAZIRISTAN: A jirga held in Shaktoi area here on Tuesday demanded an end to alleged quadcopter strikes on residential areas and repeated imposition of curfew in the region.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SOUTH WAZIRISTAN: A jirga held in Shaktoi area here on Tuesday demanded an end to alleged quadcopter strikes on residential areas and repeated imposition of curfew in the region. The All Political Alliance, Upper South Waziristan, organised the jirga. Mehsud tribal elders, ulema, political and social figures attended the jirga. The jirga passed a resolution, demanding an end to mortar firing and quadcopter strikes in populated areas, which put people’s lives and property at risk. The resolution called upon the authorities to ensure that residents were not exposed to unnecessary risks.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033606/jirga-demands-end-to-quadcopter-attacks-curfew-in-s-waziristan","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6168210c9f42","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:06:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Crystal Jade holding companies placed under receivership; restaurants remain open","headline":"Kroll put Crystal Jade holding companies into receivership while its restaurants stayed open in Singapore","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Financial and risk advisory firm Kroll is reviewing the restaurant group's finances and operations, including potential restructuring.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Financial and risk advisory firm Kroll is reviewing the restaurant group's finances and operations, including potential restructuring.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/crystal-jade-restaurants-singapore-hong-kong-business-receivership-6420451","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"630bd3bb4c74","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:05:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"ERM 2026: Fuerzas Armadas inician despliegue de 41 mil efectivos para comicios","headline":"ERM 2026: Armed Forces begin deployment of 41,000 troops for elections","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Comando Conjunto de las Fuerzas Armadas pondrá en marcha el despliegue de 41 mil efectivos, que brindarán seguridad en más de 10 mil locales de votación de todo el territorio nacional durante la jornada electoral d…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Comando Conjunto de las Fuerzas Armadas pondrá en marcha el despliegue de 41 mil efectivos, que brindarán seguridad en más de 10 mil locales de votación de todo el territorio nacional durante la jornada electoral del domingo 4 de octubre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Joint Command of the Armed Forces will launch the deployment of 41,000 troops who will provide security at more than 10,000 polling stations across the national territory during the election day on Sunday, October 4.","context_en":"The Joint Command of the Armed Forces will launch the deployment of 41,000 troops who will provide security at more than 10,000 polling stations across the national territory during the election day on Sunday, October 4.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The Peruvian Armed Forces have supplied election security at polling stations for decades under the authority of the Joint Command. That command coordinates troop movements and assignments to maintain order at ballot sites on voting day itself.\n\nOn September 30 the Joint Command announced the start of deployment for 41,000 troops who will cover more than 10,000 polling stations nationwide. The move places soldiers at each site ahead of the general election scheduled for October 4.\n\nThe operation now turns on the final positioning of those units across the national territory before polls open.","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-erm-2026-fuerzas-armadas-inician-despliegue-41-mil-efectivos-para-comicios-1093952.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d3317cc568b7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:03:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW TAIPEI","what":"Man detained after daughter seen in public with vulgar sign","headline":"A man in Taiwan was detained in New Taipei on Wednesday for allegedly violating a protection order after his daughter was seen with a vulgar sign around her neck","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) The New Taipei District Court on Wednesday ordered a man detained incommunicado for allegedly violating a protection order after his daughter was seen in Sanchong District in New Taipei with a sign with vulgar wording hanging from her neck.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609300006","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"042387eca18b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:02:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAZA","what":"Girl has multiple surgeries to control infections after strike in Gaza","headline":"Strikes on a tent in al-Mawasi, Gaza, Palestine injured a girl who had more than 20 surgeries","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Witnesses say Raseel's tent was hit by an Israeli helicopter strike.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Witnesses say Raseel's tent was hit by an Israeli helicopter strike. Israel’s military says it has no record of the attack.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Six-year-old Raseel al-Balawi lived with her family in a tent inside the al-Mawasi displacement camp in Gaza. The camp had become one of the last crowded shelters after repeated Israeli operations pushed civilians into the area over the previous year.\n\nOn 30 September 2026 an Israeli helicopter fired on the tent according to witnesses on the ground. The strike tore through Raseel and left deep wounds that quickly turned infectious. Doctors in the remaining Gaza medical posts have performed more than twenty surgeries on her since late July to cut away infected tissue and try to stop the spread.\n\nShe continues to need repeated operations because the damaged infrastructure leaves almost no sterile equipment or consistent antibiotics. The Israeli military states it holds no record of any strike at that location or time.","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/c8n5d0e0n6wdo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b0bc3ca1b0e8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:02:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LAHORE","what":"Restricting kids’ access to social media: FCC moved against registrar’s objections to petition","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"LAHORE: An appeal has been filed in the Federal Constitutional Court (FCC) challenging objections raised by its registrar to a constitutional petition seeking measures to restrict access to social media platforms by c…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"LAHORE: An appeal has been filed in the Federal Constitutional Court (FCC) challenging objections raised by its registrar to a constitutional petition seeking measures to restrict access to social media platforms by children below 16 years of age. Supreme Court’s lawyers – Sheraz Zaka and Moin Akhtar – who filed the appeal in person, have urged the FCC to set aside the registrar’s order and order fixing hearing of their petition.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"schools","sim":0.3795},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033599/restricting-kids-access-to-social-media-fcc-moved-against-registrars-objections-to-petition","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86e915083956","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:02:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SWEDEN","what":"Lunds universitet backar i global rankning","headline":"Lund University drops in global ranking","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Svenska universitet, bland annat Lunds universitet, tappar, medan ett kinesiskt universitet klättrar i Times Higher Educations globala rankning.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Svenska universitet, bland annat Lunds universitet, tappar, medan ett kinesiskt universitet klättrar i Times Higher Educations globala rankning.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Swedish universities, including Lund University, are falling while a Chinese university is climbing in Times Higher Education's global ranking.","context_en":"Swedish universities, including Lund University, are falling while a Chinese university is climbing in Times Higher Education's global ranking.","lang":"sv","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/skane/lunds-universitet-backar-i-global-rankning","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6a847bf45302","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:00:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Arnold Schwarzenegger heads to jury trial over LA crash that allegedly left woman with permanent brain damage","headline":"Arnold Schwarzenegger will face a jury trial in Los Angeles on Oct. 12 over a 2022 car crash that plaintiff Cheryl Augustine says left her with permanent brain damage","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Arnold Schwarzenegger faces an Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Arnold Schwarzenegger faces an Oct. 12 jury trial over a 2022 car crash that plaintiff Cheryl Augustine says left her with permanent brain damage.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/arnold-schwarzenegger-faces-2026-trial-over-2022-car-crash/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e26e0e17a1e5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:00:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PESHAWAR","what":"Peshawar High court calls attorney general over delayed NFC Award","headline":"Peshawar High Court directed Pakistan's attorney general to appear over a delayed NFC Award on Nov 11","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PESHAWAR: The Peshawar High Court on Tuesday directed the National Finance Commission (NFC) to respond to a petition that challenged the non-issuance of a new NFC Award and put the attorney general for Pakistan on not…","quote":"failure to issue the new National Finance Commission Award, as required by the Constitution and meet the financial obligations","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PESHAWAR: The Peshawar High Court on Tuesday directed the National Finance Commission (NFC) to respond to a petition that challenged the non-issuance of a new NFC Award and put the attorney general for Pakistan on notice, asking him to attend the next hearing. A bench consisting of Justice Ijaz Anwar and Justice Kamran Hayat Khan Miankhel fixed Nov 11 for next hearing into the petition filed by former provincial minister and Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf leader Taimur Saleem Khan Jhagra against the federal government’s what he called “failure to issue the new National Finance Commission Award, as r","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033615/peshawar-high-court-calls-attorney-general-over-delayed-nfc-award","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ce6a92ef459e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T05:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Over 1 million HDB households to receive U-Save, S&CC rebates in October","headline":"More than 1 million HDB households in Singapore will receive U-Save and S&CC rebates in October under the permanent GST Voucher scheme","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The rebates are provided under the permanent GST Voucher (GSTV) scheme.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The rebates are provided under the permanent GST Voucher (GSTV) scheme.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/u-save-scc-rebate-electricity-gas-tariffs-october-6420406","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d95eece047fc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:59:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LAHORE","what":"Ahsan Bhoon serves Rs5bn defamation notice on Capt Safdar","headline":"Pakistan served a Rs5 billion defamation notice on retired Capt Muhammad Safdar in Lahore","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"LAHORE/ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Bar Council’s member Ahsan Bhoon has served a Rs5 billion defamation notice on retired Capt Muhammad Safdar, husband of Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz, demanding an unconditional public apology…","quote":"Your statements are not being treated by Our Client as political rhetoric, casual commentary or some inconsequential exchange before the media,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"LAHORE/ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Bar Council’s member Ahsan Bhoon has served a Rs5 billion defamation notice on retired Capt Muhammad Safdar, husband of Chief Minister Maryam Nawaz, demanding an unconditional public apology and retraction of the allegation that his LLB degree is fake. The notice, issued by Kilam Law-Barristers & Legal Consultants, states that Safdar, speaking publicly outside the Supreme Court on or about Sept 23, alleged that Bhoon’s LLB qualification was fake.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033602/ahsan-bhoon-serves-rs5bn-defamation-notice-on-capt-safdar","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bd8803a3b9e6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:58:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Perú fortalecerá cooperación con el BID para proyectos de agua y vivienda social","headline":"Peru to strengthen cooperation with IDB on water and social housing projects","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Para fortalecer y gestionar el financiamiento de proyectos de agua y saneamiento, así como de vivienda social en el país, cumplirá del 30 de setiembre al 2 de octubre, una agenda de trabajo en Estados Unidos, que le p…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Para fortalecer y gestionar el financiamiento de proyectos de agua y saneamiento, así como de vivienda social en el país, cumplirá del 30 de setiembre al 2 de octubre, una agenda de trabajo en Estados Unidos, que le permitirá fortalecer la cooperación con el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"To strengthen and manage financing for water and sanitation projects as well as social housing in the country, Peru will carry out a work agenda in the United States from 30 September to 2 October that will allow it to strengthen cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).","context_en":"To strengthen and manage financing for water and sanitation projects as well as social housing in the country, Peru will carry out a work agenda in the United States from 30 September to 2 October that will allow it to strengthen cooperation with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-peru-fortalecera-cooperacion-con-bid-para-proyectos-agua-y-vivienda-social-1093953.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"78cb9fa2e21f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:56:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Man gets jail for slapping 4-year-old boy at bus stop in front of other preschool kids","headline":"A man received a jail sentence for slapping a 4-year-old boy at a Singapore bus stop in front of other preschool children after the boy pointed his middle finger at him","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The offender pursued the four-year-old to a nearby bus stop after becoming angry when the boy pointed his middle finger at him.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The offender pursued the four-year-old to a nearby bus stop after becoming angry when the boy pointed his middle finger at him.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/man-jail-slap-4-boy-middle-finger-6420336","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"264d7731f62e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:55:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UTAH","what":"Utah man released after decades on death row as DNA evidence excludes him from 1985 killing","headline":"A Utah man left death row on bail after DNA evidence cleared him in the 1985 killing of a police chief's aunt","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Utah man who spent decades on death row was released on bail after DNA evidence excluded him from the 1985 killing of a police chief's aunt.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Utah man who spent decades on death row was released on bail after DNA evidence excluded him from the 1985 killing of a police chief's aunt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/utah-man-released-decades-death-row-dna-evidence-excludes-1985-killing","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2c5a61ff9667","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:49:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Ministro Kiev, 'ogni allarme missilistico costa 45 milioni dollari all'ora'","headline":"Kiev minister: 'Every missile alert costs $45 million per hour'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kravchenko: \"Tentativo russo di distruggere la nostra economia\"","quote":"Tentativo russo di distruggere la nostra economia","quote_en":"Russian attempt to destroy our economy","context":"Kravchenko: \"Tentativo russo di distruggere la nostra economia\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Kravchenko said it is a Russian attempt to destroy our economy.","context_en":"Kravchenko said it is a Russian attempt to destroy our economy.","lang":"it","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:16000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/ministro-kiev-ogni-allarme-missilistico-costa-45-milioni-dollari-allora_8935c8d5-df80-4074-8e6c-ddcbdd63fec2.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bab1d27b600c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:39:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ADELAIDE","what":"Police investigate whether beach brawls were 'organised' on social media","headline":"South Australia Police examine if social media organised beach brawls in Adelaide on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SA Police are looking to identify individuals behind social media accounts and their \"level of organisation\" after videos emerged of public fights along Adelaide's metropolitan beaches on Tuesday.","quote":"level of organisation","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SA Police are looking to identify individuals behind social media accounts and their \"level of organisation\" after videos emerged of public fights along Adelaide's metropolitan beaches on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/social-media-videos-show-teenagers-watching-beach-fights/107211012","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a83ca742674f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:37:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Aeroméxico y ASPA acuerdan prórroga para revisar Contrato Colectivo de Trabajo; descartan posible huelga","headline":"Aeroméxico and ASPA agree to extension to review Collective Bargaining Agreement; rule out possible strike","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La aerolínea mexicana reitera su disposición al diálogo con el sindicato y su compromiso para llegar a un acuerdo conforme a la ley","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La aerolínea mexicana reitera su disposición al diálogo con el sindicato y su compromiso para llegar a un acuerdo conforme a la ley","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Mexican airline reiterated its willingness to dialogue with the union and its commitment to reach an agreement in accordance with the law.","context_en":"The Mexican airline reiterated its willingness to dialogue with the union and its commitment to reach an agreement in accordance with the law.","lang":"es","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/cartera/aeromexico-y-aspa-acuerdan-prorroga-para-revisar-contrato-colectivo-de-trabajo-descartan-posible-huelga/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f54ed72ea67e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:33:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDIA","what":"Apple Pay launches in India with Axis Bank partnership","headline":"Apple launched Apple Pay in India with Axis Bank on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Channel News Asia · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Apple Pay launches in India with Axis Bank partnership","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/business/apple-pay-launches-in-india-axis-bank-partnership-6420461","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9a6b46f4bbbc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:32:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Photos of contents of skip bin shown to jury in Beau Lamarre-Condon trial","headline":"Jurors in Sydney, Australia, saw photos of blood-stained bedding, clothing and other items from a skip bin in the Beau Lamarre-Condon trial","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Photographs of possessions, blood-stained bedding and clothing found in a skip bin have been shown to jurors in the trial of Beau Lamarre-Condon.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Photographs of possessions, blood-stained bedding and clothing found in a skip bin have been shown to jurors in the trial of Beau Lamarre-Condon.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/nsw-beau-lamarre-condon-trial-jury-crime-scene-photos/107212118","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ce51eab421a7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:31:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PUNJAB","what":"Punjab forms body to review probe in Hina Javed murder case","headline":"Punjab Pakistan formed a three-member committee to review the probe into Hina Javed's murder in Rawalpindi","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"RAWALPINDI: The Punjab government has formed a three-member high-powered committee to review the investigation in the murder case of Hina Javed in which her husband and a domestic servant have been placed on judicial…","quote":"strangulation mark around her neck; injury below her right lip with her nose bleeding","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"RAWALPINDI: The Punjab government has formed a three-member high-powered committee to review the investigation in the murder case of Hina Javed in which her husband and a domestic servant have been placed on judicial remand in Adiala jail. On the other hand, the Rawalpindi police have received forensic and the final postmortem reports which showed marks of torture and other crucial evidence. According to sources, the Punjab Forensic Science Agency’s (PSFA) findings showed startling evidence of the domestic servant’s role in the gruesome murder of the woman.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033581/punjab-forms-body-to-review-probe-in-hina-javed-murder-case","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2f3728627fc7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:29:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"GIC acquires 16 Marriott-run hotels in Japan amid tourism boom","headline":"GIC bought 16 Marriott hotels in Japan as tourism surged","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In the latest big real estate deal in Japan, Singapore's GIC took over Four Points Flex by Sheraton, a mid-price-range hotel chain.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In the latest big real estate deal in Japan, Singapore's GIC took over Four Points Flex by Sheraton, a mid-price-range hotel chain.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/business/2026/09/30/companies/gic-marriott-hotels-japan-tourism/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8b05e6dd6041","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:25:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CENTRAL OTAGO","what":"Central Otago council dumps plans to truck human waste to local farm","headline":"Central Otago council in New Zealand dumped plans to truck human waste to a local farm near Lauder and voted to send the sludge to Winton landfill in Southland","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Councillors have voted to send the sludge to Winton landfill in Southland, rather than dump it on land near Lauder.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Councillors have voted to send the sludge to Winton landfill in Southland, rather than dump it on land near Lauder.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/country/1664086/central-otago-council-dumps-plans-to-truck-human-waste-to-local-farm","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b4dcd29e4a1c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:25:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MURREE","what":"Murree tightens checks on school vans after fire incident","headline":"Murree Pakistan police formed squads to check fire safety on school vans after a fire incident","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"RAWALPINDI: Following the school van fire incident in Murree, the City Traffic Police has formed special squads to check fire safety arrangements in public service and school vans to prevent such incidents in future.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"RAWALPINDI: Following the school van fire incident in Murree, the City Traffic Police has formed special squads to check fire safety arrangements in public service and school vans to prevent such incidents in future. A spokesman for the City Traffic Police Murree said in a press release that, on the orders of District Police Officer Murree Raza Tanveer Sipra and Chief Traffic Officer Murree Munir Ahmed Hashmi, special squads of traffic wardens had been formed to ensure safety arrangements in public service vehicles, particularly those used to transport schoolchildren.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033586/murree-tightens-checks-on-school-vans-after-fire-incident","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4945768ecf36","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:24:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Wekdienst 30/9: Kamer debatteert over begroting • In VS wordt Christa Pike (50) geëxecuteerd","headline":"Morning briefing 9/30: House debates budget • Christa Pike (50) to be executed in US","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Goedemorgen!","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Goedemorgen! De Tweede Kamer begint aan de Algemene Financiële Beschouwingen en in de VS wordt Christa Pike geëxecuteerd, tenzij het Hooggerechtshof op het laatste moment anders beslist. Eerst het weer: Ga je vandaag op pad? Hier vind je het overzicht van de files en wegwerkzaamheden en hier alles over de situatie op het spoor. Wat kun je vandaag verwachten? Wat heb je gemist? Er zijn maatregelen nodig om NS-medewerkers te beschermen tegen agressieve reizigers. Dat schrijft de vakbond voor spoorpersoneel VVMC in een brandbrief aan de politiek.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Good morning! The Dutch House of Representatives begins the General Financial Considerations and in the US Christa Pike is to be executed, unless the Supreme Court decides otherwise at the last moment.","context_en":"Good morning! The Dutch House of Representatives begins the General Financial Considerations and in the US Christa Pike is to be executed, unless the Supreme Court decides otherwise at the last moment.","lang":"nl","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633083","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bfa68161433e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:21:52.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Parents of hospitalized Arizona State hockey player call for coaches to be placed on leave","headline":"Parents of an Arizona State hockey player hospitalized after heatstroke at an August workout called for coaches to be placed on leave","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A lawyer for the family says 21-year-old Matthew Mayich suffered from external heatstroke during a team workout in August and is unlikely to recover.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A lawyer for the family says 21-year-old Matthew Mayich suffered from external heatstroke during a team workout in August and is unlikely to recover.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/parents-matthew-mayich-arizona-state-coaches-placed-leave-rcna600584","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ea42b16d97a9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:21:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEONGNAM","what":"Restaurant named after Xi Jinping attacked by Chinese nationals in South Korea","headline":"Chinese nationals attacked a restaurant named after Xi Jinping in South Korea","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The owner said he chose the name because he wanted to run the \"best Chinese restaurant\" in South Korea.","quote":"best Chinese restaurant","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The owner said he chose the name because he wanted to run the \"best Chinese restaurant\" in South Korea.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c9kgvm275ev8o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5866f1038d25","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:12:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"Military holds half-scale National Day aerial rehearsal in Taipei","headline":"Taiwan military held half-scale National Day aerial rehearsal over downtown Taipei on Wednesday morning","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 30 (CNA) With the National Day of the Republic of China (Taiwan) approaching, military units participating in the Oct. 10 celebrations are stepping up rehearsals, with a half-scale aerial rehearsal held over downtown Taipei on Wednesday morning.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202609300005","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c637c04f2f6d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BEIJING","what":"China says Taiwan ‘desecrating the martyrs’ with its WWII history criticism","headline":"China accused Taiwan of desecrating the martyrs over its criticism of Beijing's account of World War II in Beijing on Thursday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"China's government accused Taiwan of \"desecrating the martyrs\" with its criticism of Beijing's interpretation of WWII.","quote":"desecrating the martyrs","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"China's government accused Taiwan of \"desecrating the martyrs\" with its criticism of Beijing's interpretation of WWII.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/30/asia-pacific/politics/china-taiwan-martyrs-wwii-history/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8c061195835b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:07:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SAMOA","what":"Lakapi Samoa unhappy with Oceania Sevens cancellation","headline":"Lakapi Samoa criticised Oceania Rugby for cancelling the Sevens event last Friday over a lack of funding","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Oceania Rugby cancelled the event last Friday, pointing to lack of funding as the main reason for the decision.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Oceania Rugby cancelled the event last Friday, pointing to lack of funding as the main reason for the decision.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/pacific/1663895/lakapi-samoa-unhappy-with-oceania-sevens-cancellation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"97f7287c40dc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:06:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"¿Quieres formarte en política comercial? Mincetur abre convocatoria gratuita","headline":"Want to train in trade policy? Mincetur opens free application period","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio de Comercio Exterior y Turismo (Mincetur) anunció que desde este 1 de octubre, abrirá las inscripciones para el XIV Curso de Negociaciones Comerciales Internacionales (CNCI), el cual es 100% gratuito y d…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio de Comercio Exterior y Turismo (Mincetur) anunció que desde este 1 de octubre, abrirá las inscripciones para el XIV Curso de Negociaciones Comerciales Internacionales (CNCI), el cual es 100% gratuito y dirigido a jóvenes universitarios de todo el país.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (Mincetur) announced that starting October 1 it will open registration for the XIV International Trade Negotiations Course (CNCI), which is 100% free and aimed at university students from across the country.","context_en":"The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Tourism (Mincetur) announced that starting October 1 it will open registration for the XIV International Trade Negotiations Course (CNCI), which is 100% free and aimed at university students from across the country.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-quieres-formarte-politica-comercial-mincetur-abre-convocatoria-gratuita-1093947.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fcae24934f53","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:05:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VILLA MARIA DEL TRIUNFO","what":"VMT: menor de 6 años queda grave tras caerle carga de madera en Tablada de Lurín","headline":"VMT: 6-year-old boy left in serious condition after wooden load falls on him in Tablada de Lurín","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Un niño de seis años quedó gravemente herido tras ser golpeado por varias tablas de madera que cayeron de un camión mientras eran manipuladas frente a una maderera en Tablada de Lurín, Villa María del Triunfo.","quote":"Está con derrame, creo. Su situación está grave","quote_en":"He's got a hemorrhage, I think. His condition is serious.","context":"Un niño de seis años quedó gravemente herido tras ser golpeado por varias tablas de madera que cayeron de un camión mientras eran manipuladas frente a una maderera en Tablada de Lurín, Villa María del Triunfo. El accidente ocurrió en la calle General Francisco Vidal Laos, cerca de la intersección con Simón Bolívar, cuando el menor regresaba del colegio acompañado de su abuelo y su hermana. De acuerdo con el relato de la familia, los tres caminaban por la zona cuando parte de la madera que era retirada del vehículo se desplazó hacia el lugar por donde transitaban.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A six-year-old boy was seriously injured after being hit by several wooden boards that fell from a truck while they were being handled in front of a lumberyard in Tablada de Lurín, Villa María del Triunfo.","context_en":"A six-year-old boy was seriously injured after being hit by several wooden boards that fell from a truck while they were being handled in front of a lumberyard in Tablada de Lurín, Villa María del Triunfo.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/edicion/lima/vmt-menor-de-6-anos-queda-grave-tras-caerle-carga-de-madera-en-tablada-de-lurin-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"87d4f36c364a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:02:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"EUROPEAN UNION","what":"Leeuwendeel van EU-instellingen laat mail via Amerikaanse servers lopen","headline":"Large majority of EU institutions route email via American servers","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bijna driekwart van de instellingen van de Europese Unie laat zijn mail via servers van Amerikaanse bedrijven lopen, blijkt uit onderzoek van de NOS.","quote":"we niet afhankelijk kunnen zijn van anderen voor technologie die onze ziekenhuizen laat draaien, ons energienet laat werken en onze dienstverlening veilig houdt.","quote_en":"we cannot be dependent on others for technology that keeps our hospitals running, makes our energy grid work and keeps our services secure.","context":"Bijna driekwart van de instellingen van de Europese Unie laat zijn mail via servers van Amerikaanse bedrijven lopen, blijkt uit onderzoek van de NOS. Dat terwijl de Europese Commissie zich zorgen maakt over de afhankelijkheid van Amerikaanse bigtech. Ondanks die zorgen gaat zelfs mail van de Europese Commissie langs servers van Amerikaanse bedrijven. De Europese Commissie antwoordde niet op vragen van de NOS over de fysieke locatie waar de mail is opgeslagen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Nearly three-quarters of European Union institutions route their email via servers of American companies, according to NOS research. This is despite the European Commission expressing concerns about dependence on American big tech. Even the European Commission's own email goes through American company servers.","context_en":"Nearly three-quarters of European Union institutions route their email via servers of American companies, according to NOS research. This is despite the European Commission expressing concerns about dependence on American big tech. Even the European Commission's own email goes through American company servers.","lang":"nl","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633082","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e079103a0859","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T04:00:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Gemeenten negeren oproep minister om bewoning op vakantieparken toe te staan","headline":"Municipalities ignore minister's call to allow permanent residence on holiday parks","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Een oproep van het kabinet aan gemeenten om permanente bewoners van vakantieparken met rust te laten, heeft niet tot meer zekerheid geleid voor deze groep.","quote":"Als gemeente willen we zelf kunnen beslissen over onze vakantieparken en daarbij de lokale belangen afwegen","quote_en":"As a municipality we want to be able to decide for ourselves about our holiday parks and weigh the local interests accordingly","context":"Een oproep van het kabinet aan gemeenten om permanente bewoners van vakantieparken met rust te laten, heeft niet tot meer zekerheid geleid voor deze groep. Verreweg de meeste gemeenten die de bestaande regels handhaafden, gaan daar gewoon mee door. Dat blijkt uit onderzoek van de regionale omroepen in samenwerking met de NOS. Het kabinet wil het vanwege de grote krapte op de woningmarkt mogelijk maken om permanente bewoners van vakantiehuisjes met rust te laten op vakantieparken.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A call by the cabinet to municipalities to leave permanent residents of holiday parks in peace has not led to more certainty for this group. The vast majority of municipalities that enforced existing rules are simply continuing to do so. This is shown by research from the regional broadcasters in cooperation with NOS.","context_en":"A call by the cabinet to municipalities to leave permanent residents of holiday parks in peace has not led to more certainty for this group. The vast majority of municipalities that enforced existing rules are simply continuing to do so. This is shown by research from the regional broadcasters in cooperation with NOS.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633081","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a2712733f4f0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:55:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FIJI","what":"Cocaine seized in Australian's arrest goes missing in Fiji","headline":"Fiji police said 12.9 kilograms of cocaine stored at the high court evidence room went missing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Fiji Police have confirmed another 12.9 kilograms of cocaine stored at a high court evidence room is missing, bringing the total to more than 52kg of cocaine now unaccounted-for.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Fiji Police have confirmed another 12.9 kilograms of cocaine stored at a high court evidence room is missing, bringing the total to more than 52kg of cocaine now unaccounted-for.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/fiji-cocaine-missing-evidence-room-flour-stolen/107211160","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/pacific/1662353/six-persons-of-interest-identified-in-court-cocaine-case-fiji-police-says","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"979dc55ab52d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:55:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MARLBOROUGH SOUNDS","what":"Fuel contained during boat salvage in Marlborough Sounds","headline":"Salvage crews contained fuel from a 56-foot boat in New Zealand's Marlborough Sounds","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 56-foot boat was carrying 2000 litres of diesel and 60 litres of engine oil.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 56-foot boat was carrying 2000 litres of diesel and 60 litres of engine oil.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/regional/1663604/fuel-contained-during-boat-salvage-in-marlborough-sounds","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"76dbafad49ca","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:50:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Morena lanza convocatoria para quienes aspiren a una diputación federal; proceso concluye el 2 de octubre","headline":"Morena launches call for those aspiring to federal deputy positions; process ends on October 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La dirigencia nacional de Morena abrió está noche la convocatoria para las coordinaciones de distrito federal, en las que se podrán inscribir quienes aspiren a ser candidatos a Diputaciones Federales .","quote":"convocatoria del Comité Ejecutivo Nacional de Morena para la definición de las Coordinaciones Distritales Federales de los Comités De Defensa de la Transformación y la Soberanía Nacional","quote_en":"call by the National Executive Committee of Morena for the definition of the Federal District Coordinations of the Committees for the Defense of Transformation and National Sovereignty","context":"La dirigencia nacional de Morena abrió está noche la convocatoria para las coordinaciones de distrito federal, en las que se podrán inscribir quienes aspiren a ser candidatos a Diputaciones Federales . El proceso inicia tras haber concluido la selección de los perfiles estatales rumbo a 2027 , que culminó este lunes con la designación de Cruz Pérez Cuéllar como coordinador de la cuarta transformación en Chihuahua . Dicha convocatoria había sido aplazada mientras el partido revisaba los requisitos de participación.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The national leadership of Morena opened the call tonight for federal district coordinations, in which those aspiring to be candidates for Federal Deputies can register. The process begins after the selection of state profiles for 2027 concluded this Monday with the designation of Cruz Pérez Cuéllar as coordinator of the fourth transformation in Chihuahua. The call had been postponed while the","context_en":"The national leadership of Morena opened the call tonight for federal district coordinations, in which those aspiring to be candidates for Federal Deputies can register. The process begins after the selection of state profiles for 2027 concluded this Monday with the designation of Cruz Pérez Cuéllar as coordinator of the fourth transformation in Chihuahua. The call had been postponed while the","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/morena-lanza-convocatoria-para-quienes-aspiren-a-una-diputacion-federal-proceso-concluye-el-2-de-octubre/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"28176af2e346","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:46:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Premier Luis Galarreta se reúne con vicepresidente ejecutivo de la CAF","headline":"Peruvian Premier Luis Galarreta meets with CAF executive vice president","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El presidente del Consejo de Ministros, Luis Galarreta, se reunió con el vicepresidente ejecutivo del Banco de desarrollo de América Latina y El Caribe (CAF) Gianpiero Leoncini.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El presidente del Consejo de Ministros, Luis Galarreta, se reunió con el vicepresidente ejecutivo del Banco de desarrollo de América Latina y El Caribe (CAF) Gianpiero Leoncini.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The president of the Council of Ministers, Luis Galarreta, met with the executive vice president of the Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean (CAF), Gianpiero Leoncini.","context_en":"The president of the Council of Ministers, Luis Galarreta, met with the executive vice president of the Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean (CAF), Gianpiero Leoncini.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-premier-luis-galarreta-se-reune-vicepresidente-ejecutivo-de-caf-1093945.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a95393480b6f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:44:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW SOUTH WALES","what":"Planning decision to extend life of mega coal mine saves 1,500 jobs","headline":"NSW planners approved an extension of the Hunter Valley Operations coal mine near Singleton until 2045 and saved 1500 jobs in Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The NSW Independent Planning Commission approves plans that will allow Hunter Valley Operations to continue coal mining at a site near Singleton until 2045.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The NSW Independent Planning Commission approves plans that will allow Hunter Valley Operations to continue coal mining at a site near Singleton until 2045.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/hunter-valley-operations-coal-mine-ipc-decision/107022996","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"41007c41153d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:39:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALLAO","what":"Ministro de Educación resalta orden, disciplina y valores en colegio de Ciudad Pachacútec","headline":"Education Minister highlights order, discipline and values at school in Ciudad Pachacútec","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ministro de Educación, José Antonio Chang Escobedo, resaltó el orden, la disciplina y la formación de escolares con sólidos valores en la institución educativa COPRODELI San Francisco Solano, un colegio público de…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El ministro de Educación, José Antonio Chang Escobedo, resaltó el orden, la disciplina y la formación de escolares con sólidos valores en la institución educativa COPRODELI San Francisco Solano, un colegio público de gestión privada que brinda servicios educativos de excelencia a niñas, niños y adolescentes en situación de extrema vulnerabilidad en Ciudad Pachacútec, distrito de Ventanilla, Provincia Constitucional del Callao.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Education Minister José Antonio Chang Escobedo highlighted the order, discipline and training of students with strong values at the COPRODELI San Francisco Solano educational institution, a public school under private management that provides excellent educational services to girls, boys and adolescents in extreme vulnerability in Ciudad Pachacútec, Ventanilla district, Constitutional Province of","context_en":"Education Minister José Antonio Chang Escobedo highlighted the order, discipline and training of students with strong values at the COPRODELI San Francisco Solano educational institution, a public school under private management that provides excellent educational services to girls, boys and adolescents in extreme vulnerability in Ciudad Pachacútec, Ventanilla district, Constitutional Province of","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-ministro-educacion-resalta-orden-disciplina-y-valores-colegio-ciudad-pachacutec-1093936.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dd866f98e549","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:35:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRAZIL","what":"TSE manda X apagar capa falsa de revista com foto de Janja sobre projeto para favorecer a umbanda","headline":"TSE orders X to remove fake Veja magazine cover with Janja photo about Umbanda project","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"O ministro André Mendonça , do Tribunal Superior Eleitoral (TSE) , determinou que o X remova quatro publicações que usavam uma foto de Rosângela Lula da Silva , a Janja, em uma capa falsa da revista Veja .","quote":"Brasil Pronto pra Mais","quote_en":"Brazil Ready for More","context":"O ministro André Mendonça , do Tribunal Superior Eleitoral (TSE) , determinou que o X remova quatro publicações que usavam uma foto de Rosângela Lula da Silva , a Janja, em uma capa falsa da revista Veja . A decisão atende a um pedido da coligação “Brasil Pronto pra Mais” e fixa prazo de 24 horas para o cumprimento. As postagens veiculavam uma imagem que simulava a capa da revista Veja com uma fotografia verdadeira de Janja, tirada em 2021.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Minister André Mendonça of the Superior Electoral Court (TSE) ordered X to remove four posts that used a photo of Rosângela Lula da Silva, known as Janja, on a fake Veja magazine cover. The decision responds to a request from the coalition 'Brasil Pronto pra Mais' and sets a 24-hour deadline for compliance. The posts circulated an image simulating a Veja cover with a real 2021 photo of Janja.","context_en":"Minister André Mendonça of the Superior Electoral Court (TSE) ordered X to remove four posts that used a photo of Rosângela Lula da Silva, known as Janja, on a fake Veja magazine cover. The decision responds to a request from the coalition 'Brasil Pronto pra Mais' and sets a 24-hour deadline for compliance. The posts circulated an image simulating a Veja cover with a real 2021 photo of Janja.","lang":"pt","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Estadão","url":"https://www.estadao.com.br/politica/coluna-do-estadao/tse-manda-x-apagar-capa-falsa-de-revista-com-foto-de-janja-sobre-projeto-para-favorecer-a-umbanda/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"98ce60b1c554","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:30:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JÄMTLAND","what":"Inlandsbanans nya tåg kan behöva säljas – utan att ha använts i trafik","headline":"Inlandsbanan's new trains may need to be sold – without having been used in traffic","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Inlandsbanans fem nya tåg har fortfarande inte använts i trafik.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Inlandsbanans fem nya tåg har fortfarande inte använts i trafik. De köptes 2019, efter att man i samarbete med regionerna i Jämtland Härjedalen och Dalarna testkört med persontrafik. Någon upphandlad persontrafik längs Inlandsbanan ser dock inte aktuell ut för tillfället och kommer de inte i användning snart kan de behöva hyras ut – eller säljas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Inlandsbanan's five new trains have still not been used in traffic. They were bought in 2019 after test runs with passenger traffic in collaboration with the regions of Jämtland Härjedalen and Dalarna. No procured passenger traffic along the Inlandsbanan is currently planned, and if they are not put into use soon they may need to be rented out – or sold.","context_en":"Inlandsbanan's five new trains have still not been used in traffic. They were bought in 2019 after test runs with passenger traffic in collaboration with the regions of Jämtland Härjedalen and Dalarna. No procured passenger traffic along the Inlandsbanan is currently planned, and if they are not put into use soon they may need to be rented out – or sold.","lang":"sv","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/jamtland/inlandsbanans-nya-tag-kan-behova-saljas-utan-att-ha-anvants-i-trafik","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"77468b7fb1a2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:30:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GOTHENBURG","what":"Efter kollision mellan fraktfartyg och fritidsbåt – nu kommer domen efter båtolyckan vid Tjörn","headline":"After collision between cargo ship and leisure boat – verdict now due in Tjörn boat accident","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Under onsdagen kommer domen efter båtolyckan utanför Tjörn där en mamma och hennes dotter dog.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Under onsdagen kommer domen efter båtolyckan utanför Tjörn där en mamma och hennes dotter dog. Kaptenen och lotsen åtalades för bland annat vållande till annans död och åklagaren har yrkat på fängelse. Domen ska meddelas av Göteborgs tingsrätt klockan 11.00.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"On Wednesday the verdict will be issued in the boat accident off Tjörn in which a mother and her daughter died. The captain and the pilot were charged with, among other things, causing the death of another person, and the prosecutor has called for prison sentences. The verdict is to be announced by Göteborgs tingsrätt at 11:00.","context_en":"On Wednesday the verdict will be issued in the boat accident off Tjörn in which a mother and her daughter died. The captain and the pilot were charged with, among other things, causing the death of another person, and the prosecutor has called for prison sentences. The verdict is to be announced by Göteborgs tingsrätt at 11:00.","lang":"sv","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/vast/efter-kollision-mellan-fraktfartyg-och-fritidsbat-nu-kommer-domen-efter-batolyckan-vid-tjorn","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fbe5cb8a9d56","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:30:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NÄSSJÖ","what":"Görans livsverk går i graven: ”Ingen cyklar längre”","headline":"Göran's life's work is buried: 'No one cycles anymore'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Idag, sista september stänger Nässjös sista cykelbutik för gott.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Idag, sista september stänger Nässjös sista cykelbutik för gott. Och enligt ägaren Göran Gäreborg är det det sjunkande antalet cyklister i stan som är orsaken.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Today, the last day of September, Nässjö's last bicycle shop closes for good. According to owner Göran Gäreborg, the declining number of cyclists in the town is the reason.","context_en":"Today, the last day of September, Nässjö's last bicycle shop closes for good. According to owner Göran Gäreborg, the declining number of cyclists in the town is the reason.","lang":"sv","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SVT","url":"https://www.svt.se/nyheter/lokalt/jonkoping/gorans-livsverk-gar-i-graven-ingen-cyklar-langre","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a6901a07a941","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:27:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HUANUCO","what":"Defensoría del Pueblo amplía presencia en Huánuco con nuevo módulo en Puerto Inca","headline":"Peru's Human Rights Ombudsperson expands presence in Huánuco with new module in Puerto Inca","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Defensoría del Pueblo inició hoy actividades en su nuevo módulo ubicado en la provincia de Puerto Inca, en el extremo este de la región Huánuco, a fin de continuar acercando la defensa de los derechos de las person…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Defensoría del Pueblo inició hoy actividades en su nuevo módulo ubicado en la provincia de Puerto Inca, en el extremo este de la región Huánuco, a fin de continuar acercando la defensa de los derechos de las personas y atender las demandas ciudadanas de una manera descentralizada.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Human Rights Ombudsperson began operations today in its new module located in Puerto Inca province, in the far east of Huánuco region, in order to continue bringing the defense of people's rights closer and to address citizens' demands in a decentralized manner.","context_en":"The Human Rights Ombudsperson began operations today in its new module located in Puerto Inca province, in the far east of Huánuco region, in order to continue bringing the defense of people's rights closer and to address citizens' demands in a decentralized manner.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-defensoria-del-pueblo-amplia-presencia-huanuco-nuevo-modulo-puerto-inca-1093938.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"14a556788951","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:25:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SONORA","what":"Lluvias por \"Polo\" afectan carreteras de Sonora; cierran temporalmente dos vados en Arizpe","headline":"Rains from 'Polo' affect Sonora roads; two fords in Arizpe temporarily closed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Se reportó la presencia de cuerpos de agua en los tramos carreteros Ciudad Obregón-Navojoa, por lo que se exhortó a los automovilistas a reducir la velocidad","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Se reportó la presencia de cuerpos de agua en los tramos carreteros Ciudad Obregón-Navojoa, por lo que se exhortó a los automovilistas a reducir la velocidad","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Bodies of water were reported on the Ciudad Obregón-Navojoa highway sections, and motorists were urged to reduce their speed.","context_en":"Bodies of water were reported on the Ciudad Obregón-Navojoa highway sections, and motorists were urged to reduce their speed.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/estados/lluvias-por-polo-afectan-carreteras-de-sonora-cierran-temporalmente-dos-vados-en-arizpe/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"af9498c95b1f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:21:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEPAL","what":"Watch: Moment a government building collapses into a river in Nepal amid floods","headline":"Floods in Nepal swept away a teetering Baglung municipality building into a river","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The municipality building in Baglung was left teetering on an unstable ledge due to floods before it fell into a river.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The municipality building in Baglung was left teetering on an unstable ledge due to floods before it fell into a river.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/cv70d2nd6r0yo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"add8a7eae36b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:21:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO CITY","what":"Mujer muere durante visita a un interno en el Reclusorio Oriente; padecía hipertensión","headline":"Woman dies during visit to inmate at Reclusorio Oriente; she suffered from hypertension","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De acuerdo con sus familiares, un día antes, Areli Gudalupe se había sometido a una liposucción estética","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"De acuerdo con sus familiares, un día antes, Areli Gudalupe se había sometido a una liposucción estética","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"According to her relatives, the day before Areli Guadalupe had undergone an aesthetic liposuction.","context_en":"According to her relatives, the day before Areli Guadalupe had undergone an aesthetic liposuction.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/mujer-muere-durante-visita-a-un-interno-en-el-reclusorio-oriente-padecia-hipertension/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d6f28adb4ede","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:12:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KUALA LUMPUR","what":"Malaysia’s former PM Mahathir in hospital after wife’s death","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"His son Mokhzani said Mahathir’s condition was stable and there was no cause for concern.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"His son Mokhzani said Mahathir’s condition was stable and there was no cause for concern.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/malaysias-former-pm-mahathir-in-hospital-after-wifes-death","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Channel News Asia","url":"https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/mahathir-admitted-ijn-hospital-wife-death-malaysia-6420436","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b3de26de9326","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:08:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHINA","what":"Il Pmi cinese manifatturiero torna in espansione","headline":"China's manufacturing PMI returns to expansion","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"L'indice ufficiale Nbs sale a 50,1, mentre per il RatingDog-S Global accelera a 52,1","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"L'indice ufficiale Nbs sale a 50,1, mentre per il RatingDog-S Global accelera a 52,1","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The official NBS index rose to 50.1, while the Caixin-S&P Global one accelerated to 52.1.","context_en":"The official NBS index rose to 50.1, while the Caixin-S&P Global one accelerated to 52.1.","lang":"it","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/il-pmi-cinese-manifatturiero-torna-in-espansione_1c7b67f0-4cca-45a0-9e14-85416b9b6e2b.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"267219e22029","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:02:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO CITY","what":"Se registra percance vial en Santa Fe, en Álvaro Obregó; dos personas resultan heridas","headline":"Traffic accident reported in Santa Fe, Álvaro Obregón; two people injured","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Paramédicos atendieron a un motociclista y a un hombre de 75 años","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Paramédicos atendieron a un motociclista y a un hombre de 75 años","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Paramedics treated a motorcyclist and a 75-year-old man.","context_en":"Paramedics treated a motorcyclist and a 75-year-old man.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/adolescente-provoca-volcadura-y-choque-en-alvaro-obregon-dos-personas-resultan-lesionadas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d77839a19974","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T03:00:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KANSAS","what":"Marshall sends cease-and-desist to Hamilton over “defamatory” medical debt ad","headline":"Lawyers for Sen Roger Marshall sent a cease-and-desist letter to Adam Hamilton over a medical debt ad in Kansas","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lawyers for Sen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lawyers for Sen. Roger Marshall (R-Kansas) sent a cease-and-desist letter to his Democratic opponent Adam Hamilton for an ad focusing on a woman who was sued over medical debts to the Kansas Republican. The ad centers on Meischa Zimmerman who said she was arrested after failing to make a monthly payment of $50 towards her…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/campaign/6119443-marshall-cease-desist-hamilton-ad/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bf02742881d6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:58:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PROVIDENCIA","what":"Motociclista muere tras chocar con poste de cámaras de vigilancia en Providencia","headline":"Motorcyclist dies after crashing into surveillance camera pole in Providencia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El hombre de nacionalidad venezolana fue trasladado hasta el Hospital del Salvador donde se confirmó su deceso.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El hombre de nacionalidad venezolana fue trasladado hasta el Hospital del Salvador donde se confirmó su deceso. SIAT investigará las circunstancias del accidente.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Venezuelan man was transferred to Hospital del Salvador where his death was confirmed. SIAT will investigate the circumstances of the accident.","context_en":"The Venezuelan man was transferred to Hospital del Salvador where his death was confirmed. SIAT will investigate the circumstances of the accident.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Tercera","url":"https://www.latercera.com/nacional/noticia/motociclista-muere-tras-chocar-con-poste-de-camaras-de-vigilancia-en-providencia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BioBioChile","url":"https://www.biobiochile.cl/noticias/nacional/region-metropolitana/2026/09/29/muere-motociclista-tras-chocar-violentamente-con-poste-de-camaras-de-seguridad-en-providencia.shtml","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ae68d8d0693e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:54:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"Auckland property developer fined for unconsented earthworks at former landfill","headline":"Auckland property developer in New Zealand was fined for unconsented earthworks at former landfill","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Auckland site's contamination issues were well known but the offending continued, said the council.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Auckland site's contamination issues were well known but the offending continued, said the council.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/environment/1662760/auckland-property-developer-fined-for-unconsented-earthworks-at-former-landfill","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"03159d10b63b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:43:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"Gang members arrested, guns, drugs and cash seized after police raid Christchurch property","headline":"Police arrested gang members in Christchurch New Zealand and seized guns drugs and cash in a raid","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Firearms, drugs and cash were also seized in what police were hailing as a significant disruption to a gang-linked cannabis supply chain.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Firearms, drugs and cash were also seized in what police were hailing as a significant disruption to a gang-linked cannabis supply chain.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1662815/gang-members-arrested-guns-drugs-and-cash-seized-after-police-raid-christchurch-property","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"11067a9c42b8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:43:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"NZDF contributes to Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief exercise in Indonesia","headline":"New Zealand Defence Force took part in a humanitarian assistance and disaster relief exercise in Indonesia on September 30 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New Zealand Defence Force · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NZDF contributes to Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief exercise in Indonesia","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New Zealand Defence Force","url":"https://www.nzdf.mil.nz/media-centre/news/nzdf-contributes-to-humanitarian-assistance-and-disaster-relief-exercise-in-indonesia/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cc1143266272","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:40:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIMA","what":"Miguel Torres reafirma compromiso con la estabilidad jurídica para impulsar la inversión","headline":"Miguel Torres reaffirms commitment to legal stability to boost investment","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El presidente del Congreso de la República, Miguel Ángel Torres Morales, participó como expositor en la cena empresarial \"Agenda Perú 2027 – Gobierno y Empresa: Prioridades, Desafíos e Inversión\", organizada por Swiss…","quote":"Agenda Perú 2027 – Gobierno y Empresa: Prioridades, Desafíos e Inversión","quote_en":"Agenda Peru 2027 – Government and Business: Priorities, Challenges and Investment","context":"El presidente del Congreso de la República, Miguel Ángel Torres Morales, participó como expositor en la cena empresarial \"Agenda Perú 2027 – Gobierno y Empresa: Prioridades, Desafíos e Inversión\", organizada por SwissCham Perú y la Cámara de Comercio Canadá-Perú, en el Swissôtel Lima, en San Isidro.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The president of the Congress of the Republic, Miguel Ángel Torres Morales, participated as a speaker at the business dinner \"Agenda Perú 2027 – Government and Business: Priorities, Challenges and Investment,\" organized by SwissCham Perú and the Canada-Peru Chamber of Commerce, at the Swissôtel Lima in San Isidro.","context_en":"The president of the Congress of the Republic, Miguel Ángel Torres Morales, participated as a speaker at the business dinner \"Agenda Perú 2027 – Government and Business: Priorities, Challenges and Investment,\" organized by SwissCham Perú and the Canada-Peru Chamber of Commerce, at the Swissôtel Lima in San Isidro.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-miguel-torres-reafirma-compromiso-con-estabilidad-juridica-para-impulsar-inversion-1093935.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d8aff79e6ac0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:40:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MANCHESTER","what":"Premier League confirms Man City guilty of serious financial breaches","headline":"Premier League found Manchester City guilty of serious financial breaches in the United Kingdom","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"According to Premier League rules, the sanctions could vary from a points deduction, a fine or even expulsion from the division.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"According to Premier League rules, the sanctions could vary from a points deduction, a fine or even expulsion from the division.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/sports/2026/09/30/soccer/man-city-financial-breach/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f87427e31e58","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:37:38.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"David Shoebridge named new Greens leader in hotly contested ballot","headline":"David Shoebridge won the Greens leadership ballot in Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"After a rare leadership ballot for the Greens, the NSW senator becomes the sixth leader in the party's history.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"After a rare leadership ballot for the Greens, the NSW senator becomes the sixth leader in the party's history.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/federal-politics-greens-announce-new-leader-david-shoebridge/107211108","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"94e4443f3f8b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:35:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Aceleran liberación de predios para el Anillo Vial con S/ 29 millones a propietarios","headline":"Peru accelerates land release for Anillo Vial with S/29 million to owners","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Agencia de Promoción de la Inversión Privada (ProInversión), indicó hoy que acelera el proceso de liberación predial del proyecto Anillo Vial con la entrega de 13 cheques por un total de S/28 millones a propietario…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Agencia de Promoción de la Inversión Privada (ProInversión), indicó hoy que acelera el proceso de liberación predial del proyecto Anillo Vial con la entrega de 13 cheques por un total de S/28 millones a propietarios de siete predios, ubicados en los tramos 1 y 3 del proyecto.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Agency for the Promotion of Private Investment (ProInversión) said today that it is accelerating the land-release process for the Anillo Vial project with the delivery of 13 cheques totalling S/28 million to owners of seven properties located in sections 1 and 3 of the project.","context_en":"The Agency for the Promotion of Private Investment (ProInversión) said today that it is accelerating the land-release process for the Anillo Vial project with the delivery of 13 cheques totalling S/28 million to owners of seven properties located in sections 1 and 3 of the project.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-aceleran-liberacion-predios-para-anillo-vial-s-29-millones-a-propietarios-1093933.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2a40497b1571","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:35:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Tauranga engineers focused on refurbishment of Navy’s logistics vessel","headline":"Engineers in Tauranga, Singapore, focused on refurbishment of New Zealand Navy’s logistics vessel on September 30, 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New Zealand Defence Force · September 30, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tauranga engineers focused on refurbishment of Navy’s logistics vessel","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New Zealand Defence Force","url":"https://www.nzdf.mil.nz/media-centre/news/tauranga-engineers-focused-on-refurbishment-of-navys-logistics-vessel/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1e31fb9451a7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:32:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"El Niño: Minsa y Colegio Médico instalarán en conjunto hospitales de campaña de emergencia","headline":"El Niño: Minsa and Medical Association to jointly install emergency field hospitals","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Con una sólida estrategia de prevención anticipada que prioriza el cuidado de la salud pública, el Ministerio de Salud (Minsa) anunció que el Gobierno, el sector privado y el Colegio Médico del Perú vienen articulando…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Con una sólida estrategia de prevención anticipada que prioriza el cuidado de la salud pública, el Ministerio de Salud (Minsa) anunció que el Gobierno, el sector privado y el Colegio Médico del Perú vienen articulando acciones urgentes ante el impacto del Fenómeno El Niño para garantizar la continuidad y el fortalecimiento de los servicios de salud en todo el país, con énfasis en el norte peruano.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"With a solid strategy of anticipatory prevention that prioritizes public health care, the Ministry of Health (Minsa) announced that the government, the private sector and the Medical Association of Peru are coordinating urgent actions in the face of the impact of the El Niño phenomenon to guarantee the continuity and strengthening of health services throughout the country, with emphasis on","context_en":"With a solid strategy of anticipatory prevention that prioritizes public health care, the Ministry of Health (Minsa) announced that the government, the private sector and the Medical Association of Peru are coordinating urgent actions in the face of the impact of the El Niño phenomenon to guarantee the continuity and strengthening of health services throughout the country, with emphasis on","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-el-nino-minsa-y-colegio-medico-instalaran-conjunto-hospitales-campana-emergencia-1093934.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8b536c6cc78b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:32:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Vakbond is mishandelingen en bedreigingen in trein zat, stuurt brandbrief","headline":"Rail union tired of assaults and threats on trains, sends urgent letter to politicians","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Er zijn maatregelen nodig om NS-medewerkers te beschermen tegen agressieve reizigers.","quote":"Dit zijn geen vervelende situaties meer","quote_en":"These are no longer annoying situations","context":"Er zijn maatregelen nodig om NS-medewerkers te beschermen tegen agressieve reizigers. Dat schrijft de vakbond voor spoorpersoneel VVMC in een brandbrief aan de politiek. Conducteurs worden volgens de vakbond steeds vaker mishandeld, bedreigd of bespuugd. Uit cijfers van de NS blijkt dat het aantal meldingen van geweldsincidenten de afgelopen jaren fors is gestegen. De bond voor spoorwegpersoneel roept de politiek daarom op snel maatregelen te nemen. In 2023 waren er 2672 meldingen van agressie en geweld tegen medewerkers, in 2024 waren dat er 5696 en in 2025 werden er 6442 geteld.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Measures are needed to protect NS staff from aggressive passengers. That is what the rail workers' union VVMC writes in an urgent letter to politicians. Conductors are increasingly being assaulted, threatened or spat on, according to the union. Figures from NS show that the number of reports of violent incidents has risen sharply in recent years.","context_en":"Measures are needed to protect NS staff from aggressive passengers. That is what the rail workers' union VVMC writes in an urgent letter to politicians. Conductors are increasingly being assaulted, threatened or spat on, according to the union. Figures from NS show that the number of reports of violent incidents has risen sharply in recent years.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633079","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4e72aab04553","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:31:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Heatwaves, wildfires expose a third of world to extreme ozone pollution","headline":"Heatwaves and wildfires exposed 34 percent of the world population to extreme ozone pollution in the first eight months of 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Heatwaves and wildfires helped expose 34 percent of the world’s population to “extremely poor” ozone air quality in the first eight months of 2026, according to a European Union report published Wednesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Heatwaves and wildfires helped expose 34 percent of the world’s population to “extremely poor” ozone air quality in the first eight months of 2026, according to a European Union report published Wednesday. Asia recorded the highest exposure, while ozone pollution remained difficult to curb despite decades of progress in reducing other harmful emissions.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:06000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/environment/20260930-heatwaves-wildfires-expose-a-third-of-world-to-extreme-ozone-pollution","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"131e83b23f5e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:30:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANBERRA","what":"Charge dropped against man accused of being Chinese spy","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The man, whose name was suppressed, was accused of covertly collecting information about a Canberra Buddhist association on behalf of a foreign principal.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The man, whose name was suppressed, was accused of covertly collecting information about a Canberra Buddhist association on behalf of a foreign principal.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/charges-against-alleged-chinese-spy-dropped/107211166","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dbd50340585f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:29:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KYIV","what":"Missili e droni su regione di Kiev, ucciso un bambino","headline":"Missiles and drones hit Kyiv region, child killed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Corpo trovato tra le macerie di un'abitazione a Vyshgorod","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Corpo trovato tra le macerie di un'abitazione a Vyshgorod","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A body was found among the rubble of a house in Vyshhorod.","context_en":"A body was found among the rubble of a house in Vyshhorod.","lang":"it","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ANSA","url":"https://www.ansa.it/sito/notizie/topnews/2026/09/30/missili-e-droni-su-regione-di-kiev-ucciso-un-bambino_69b39081-9e65-4fb2-a501-d154e7254916.html","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f7f7e948c25d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:28:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CEUTA","what":"Ceuta mass migrant crossing handling 'responsibility of all EU,' Spanish king says","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"72,000 migrants, most from Morocco, crossed the border into Ceuta on July 30, prompting Italy to suspend the EU's border-free Schengen arrangements with Spain for one month.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"72,000 migrants, most from Morocco, crossed the border into Ceuta on July 30, prompting Italy to suspend the EU's border-free Schengen arrangements with Spain for one month.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910136","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"965fdb2fc7dd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:27:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISLAMABAD","what":"IMF-linked plan to boost local currency bond market unveiled","headline":"Pakistan allowed public trading of government bonds and treasury bills on the stock market to meet IMF terms on Tuesday in Islamabad","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"ISLAMABAD: The government on Tuesday anno­unced that the general public would be allowed to trade government securities, including treasury bills and bonds, through the stock market as part of efforts to improve compl…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"ISLAMABAD: The government on Tuesday anno­unced that the general public would be allowed to trade government securities, including treasury bills and bonds, through the stock market as part of efforts to improve compliance under the Intern­ational Monetary Fund (IMF) programme currently being reviewed by a visiting staff mission for the disbursement of around $1.2 billion.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033664/imf-linked-plan-to-boost-local-currency-bond-market-unveiled","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9f9009a77ecf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:25:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PIURA","what":"PNP intensifica seguridad para garantizar obra de descolmatación del río Piura","headline":"Peruvian National Police steps up security to ensure Piura River desilting work","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Por disposición del Ministerio del Interior, la Policía Nacional del Perú (PNP) intensificó el resguardo, las labores de inteligencia y las acciones preventivas en la obra de descolmatación del río Piura, en el tramo…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Por disposición del Ministerio del Interior, la Policía Nacional del Perú (PNP) intensificó el resguardo, las labores de inteligencia y las acciones preventivas en la obra de descolmatación del río Piura, en el tramo comprendido entre Los Ejidos y Bolognesi, con el objetivo de garantizar la continuidad de los trabajos y la seguridad del personal que participa en su ejecución.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"By order of the Interior Ministry, the Peruvian National Police (PNP) intensified protection, intelligence work and preventive actions on the Piura River desilting project, in the section between Los Ejidos and Bolognesi, to guarantee continuity of the works and the safety of participating personnel.","context_en":"By order of the Interior Ministry, the Peruvian National Police (PNP) intensified protection, intelligence work and preventive actions on the Piura River desilting project, in the section between Los Ejidos and Bolognesi, to guarantee continuity of the works and the safety of participating personnel.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-pnp-intensifica-seguridad-para-garantizar-obra-descolmatacion-del-rio-piura-1093931.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"22df19585abf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:21:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"QUEENSLAND","what":"Emergency water restrictions for Queensland town following pump failure","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Clermont residents are still being urged to conserve water, while storage levels are critically low due to multiple pump failures.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Clermont residents are still being urged to conserve water, while storage levels are critically low due to multiple pump failures.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/clermont-water-water-restrictions-pump-failure/107210014","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0f102c3968c0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:21:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COLOMBIA","what":"Capturan al alcalde de Ataco y al exalcalde por presunto desvío de COP 21.550 millones","headline":"Mayor of Ataco and former mayor arrested for alleged diversion of COP 21.55 billion","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las capturas se llevaron a cabo por integrantes de la Dijín en procedimientos realizados en Ataco y Florencia (Caquetá).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las capturas se llevaron a cabo por integrantes de la Dijín en procedimientos realizados en Ataco y Florencia (Caquetá).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The arrests were carried out by members of the Dijín in operations conducted in Ataco and Florencia (Caquetá).","context_en":"The arrests were carried out by members of the Dijín in operations conducted in Ataco and Florencia (Caquetá).","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"El Espectador","url":"https://www.elespectador.com/judicial/capturan-al-alcalde-de-ataco-y-al-exalcalde-por-presunto-desvio-de-cop-21-550-millones/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa2d46421cc4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:11:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Teen e-bike rider struck by driver during live news broadcast of another car crash, wild video shows","headline":"A driver struck a teen on an e-bike in Poland during a live TV broadcast of another crash on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Harrowing video captured live on Polish TV shows the moment a teenager on an e-bike is violently rammed by a car on Tuesday","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Harrowing video captured live on Polish TV shows the moment a teenager on an e-bike is violently rammed by a car on Tuesday","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/29/world-news/teen-e-bike-rider-struck-by-driver-during-news-broadcast-of-another-car-crash/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"913433f638d4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:09:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LAMBAYEQUE","what":"Papa León XIV: Gore Lambayeque avanza así los trabajos en las pampas de Pimentel","headline":"Pope Leo XIV: Lambayeque Regional Government advances work on the Pimentel pampas","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A 30 días hábiles para culminar los preparativos para el esperado retorno del papa León XIV a Chiclayo, el Gobierno Regional de Lambayeque trabaja en el acondicionamiento de los terrenos de Pimentel, donde se oficiará…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A 30 días hábiles para culminar los preparativos para el esperado retorno del papa León XIV a Chiclayo, el Gobierno Regional de Lambayeque trabaja en el acondicionamiento de los terrenos de Pimentel, donde se oficiará una misa multitudinaria e histórica el 13 de noviembre, pero advirtió que enfrenta limitaciones presupuestales.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Thirty working days before finishing preparations for the expected return of Pope Leo XIV to Chiclayo, the Lambayeque Regional Government is working on conditioning the grounds at Pimentel, where a large historic mass will be held on 13 November, but it warned that it faces budget limitations.","context_en":"Thirty working days before finishing preparations for the expected return of Pope Leo XIV to Chiclayo, the Lambayeque Regional Government is working on conditioning the grounds at Pimentel, where a large historic mass will be held on 13 November, but it warned that it faces budget limitations.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-papa-leon-xiv-gore-lambayeque-avanza-asi-los-trabajos-las-pampas-pimentel-1093929.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"796f8960b586","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:09:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Pleno del Senado analizará este miércoles decretos supremos de régimen de excepción","headline":"Senate Plenary to analyze executive exception regime decrees this Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Pleno del Senado de la República se reunirá este miércoles 30, a las 12:30 horas, con el fin de analizar la solicitud de prórroga del plazo de tres decretos supremos de régimen de excepción, dictados por el Poder E…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Pleno del Senado de la República se reunirá este miércoles 30, a las 12:30 horas, con el fin de analizar la solicitud de prórroga del plazo de tres decretos supremos de régimen de excepción, dictados por el Poder Ejecutivo.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Senate Plenary of the Republic will meet this Wednesday the 30th at 12:30 hours in order to analyze the request for extension of three supreme decrees on the exception regime issued by the Executive Branch.","context_en":"The Senate Plenary of the Republic will meet this Wednesday the 30th at 12:30 hours in order to analyze the request for extension of three supreme decrees on the exception regime issued by the Executive Branch.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-pleno-del-senado-analizara-este-miercoles-decretos-supremos-regimen-excepcion-1093923.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2a0ada75f2bd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:04:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KENTUCKY","what":"Repeat offender with lengthy rap sheet accused of gunning down Kentucky trooper during traffic stop","headline":"Emonnie Branch shot and killed Kentucky state trooper Hayden Phillips during a traffic stop while he was on probation for securities fraud and wanted on a violation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Emonnie Branch was on probation for securities fraud and wanted for a violation before the traffic stop that left Trooper Hayden Phillips dead.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Emonnie Branch was on probation for securities fraud and wanted for a violation before the traffic stop that left Trooper Hayden Phillips dead.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/repeat-offender-lengthy-rap-sheet-accused-gunning-down-kentucky-trooper-during-traffic-stop","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/tennessee-murder-suspect-emonnie-branch-accused-of-gunning-down-kentucky-trooper-hayden-phillips/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"77d06c7eccb5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:02:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW ZEALAND","what":"Psychologist who worked with OT, Youth Court charged with sexual offences against young men","headline":"A psychologist who worked with New Zealand's Oranga Tamariki and Youth Court faced charges of sexual offences against five young men from 1996 to 2005","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The charges relate to five complainants and date between 1996 to 2005.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The charges relate to five complainants and date between 1996 to 2005.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1659885/psychologist-who-worked-with-ot-youth-court-charged-with-sexual-offences-against-young-men","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/nacion/estudio-revela-que-agresores-sexuales-tienen-trastornos-mentales-algunos-responsabilizan-a-las-victimas-y-no-se-arrepienten/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cbbdd5ff4d69","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:01:20.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RAWALPINDI","what":"Rs6.5 billion development schemes approved for Rawalpindi","headline":"Pakistan approved Rs6.5 billion in development schemes for Rawalpindi district roads","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"RAWALPINDI: Development schemes worth Rs6.5 billion have been approved for Rawalpindi district, including projects for the rehabilitation, construction, improvement and widening of roads in various areas.","quote":"Unnecessary delays in development schemes are unacceptable under any circumstances,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"RAWALPINDI: Development schemes worth Rs6.5 billion have been approved for Rawalpindi district, including projects for the rehabilitation, construction, improvement and widening of roads in various areas. A total of nine development schemes of the Rawalpindi Municipal Corporation (RMC), worth Rs1.6 billion, and nine development schemes worth Rs4.8 billion for the district council are being executed by the Punjab Highway Department, while the RMC and district council will provide funds for the road projects.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033580/rs65-billion-development-schemes-approved-for-rawalpindi","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cbe1375d8a97","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T02:00:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"EEUU sanciona a líderes del Cartel de Sinaloa que operan en la frontera con México","headline":"US sanctions Sinaloa Cartel leaders operating on the border with Mexico","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Oficina de Control de Activos Extranjeros (OFAC) del Departamento del Tesoro de Estados Unidos sancionó a casi cincuenta personas que actúan como líderes o facilitadores del mexicano Cartel de Sinaloa, según anunci…","quote":"EEUU sanciona a líderes del Cartel de Sinaloa que operan en la frontera con México","quote_en":"US sanctions Sinaloa Cartel leaders operating on the border with Mexico","context":"La Oficina de Control de Activos Extranjeros (OFAC) del Departamento del Tesoro de Estados Unidos sancionó a casi cincuenta personas que actúan como líderes o facilitadores del mexicano Cartel de Sinaloa, según anunciaron este martes. Entre las 21 personas y 25 entidades sancionadas se encuentran “el líder del cartel, Ismael Zambada Sicarios (alias ‘Mayito Flaco’), … Continua leyendo \"EEUU sanciona a líderes del Cartel de Sinaloa que operan en la frontera con México\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury sanctioned nearly fifty people acting as leaders or facilitators of the Mexican Sinaloa Cartel, according to an announcement on Tuesday.","context_en":"The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury sanctioned nearly fifty people acting as leaders or facilitators of the Mexican Sinaloa Cartel, according to an announcement on Tuesday.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The United States has maintained sanctions on leaders of the Sinaloa Cartel since the group rose to dominance in the cross-border drug trade in the 1990s after the fall of the larger Guadalajara organization. The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control blocks the property of designated foreign persons and prohibits US individuals and companies from any dealings with them.\n\nOn September 29 the department added 49 people to the list. The new designations cover men described in the order as current or former plaza bosses who control specific corridors along the US-Mexico border plus the financial and logistical facilitators who move their product and cash.\n\nThe sanctions freeze any assets those individuals hold inside US jurisdiction and cut them off from the American financial system. The list now reaches deeper into the operational layer that moves narcotics across the border than earlier rounds that focused mainly on the cartel's top figureheads.","sources":[{"outlet":"BioBioChile","url":"https://www.biobiochile.cl/noticias/internacional/eeuu/2026/09/29/eeuu-sanciona-a-lideres-del-cartel-de-sinaloa-que-operan-en-la-frontera-con-mexico.shtml","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"527394c750d7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:53:16.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"Daily train trips in Auckland up 60 percent in two weeks since City Rail Link opened","headline":"Train trips in Auckland, New Zealand rose 60 percent in two weeks after the City Rail Link opened","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The $5.5 billion project brought two new stations - Karanga-a-Hape and Te Waihorotiu - to the city centre, a redeveloped station at Mangawhau, and turned Waitematā station into two way thoroughfare.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The $5.5 billion project brought two new stations - Karanga-a-Hape and Te Waihorotiu - to the city centre, a redeveloped station at Mangawhau, and turned Waitematā station into two way thoroughfare.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/community/1662033/daily-train-trips-in-auckland-up-60-percent-in-two-weeks-since-city-rail-link-opened","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"651e02324e8c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:52:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Florida mom left infant, toddler and 2 other kids home alone while she went on 3-day cruise, officials say","headline":"Florida mother Nathalie Belizaire left four young children home alone for a three-day cruise in Florida, officials said","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Nathalie Belizaire is accused of four counts of child neglect without great bodily harm.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nathalie Belizaire is accused of four counts of child neglect without great bodily harm.","summary":"Nathalie Belizaire of Florida went on a three-day cruise and left her infant, toddler and two other children home alone. Police found the children during a welfare check. She faces four counts of child neglect without great bodily harm.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.3893},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"A mother in Florida can leave her children at home for short periods under state law but must arrange supervision if she will be gone longer than a reasonable time for their ages. That rule has stood since lawmakers set child-neglect standards in the criminal code decades ago.\n\nOn September 30, 2026, authorities charged Nathalie Belizaire with four counts of child neglect without great bodily harm. Police said she left an infant, a toddler and two older children alone in the house while she took a three-day cruise.\n\nThe case now rests on what evidence prosecutors present about the length of time the children were unsupervised and whether any actual harm occurred.","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/mom-left-infant-toddler-two-kids-home-alone-went-3-day-cruise-official-rcna600587","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"292ec8880327","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:44:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUCKLAND","what":"Auckland lake topped up with trout for school holidays","headline":"New Zealand officials stocked Auckland lake with rainbow trout from Rotorua for the school holidays","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Rainbow trout trucked up from Rotorua have been released by Fish and Game into the North Shore lake.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Rainbow trout trucked up from Rotorua have been released by Fish and Game into the North Shore lake.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:10000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/community/1660526/auckland-lake-topped-up-with-trout-for-school-holidays","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0b190eced862","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:42:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARNHEM","what":"Meerdere gewonden bij steekpartij in centrum Arnhem, politie rukt uit in kogelwerende vesten","headline":"Multiple injured in stabbing in central Arnhem, police respond in bulletproof vests","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In Arnhem zijn gisteravond meerdere gewonden gevallen bij steekpartijen in het centrum.","quote":"Ik zag een wond in zijn borst, zijn schouder, en onderin zijn rug. Hij was toen nog aanspreekbaar.","quote_en":"I saw a wound in his chest, his shoulder, and lower in his back. He was still responsive at that time.","context":"In Arnhem zijn gisteravond meerdere gewonden gevallen bij steekpartijen in het centrum. Dat bevestigt een woordvoerder van de politie na berichtgeving van De Gelderlander. De krant schrijft dat aan de steekpartijen waarschijnlijk een grote ruzie voorafging. De eerste melding kwam rond 21.30 uur bij de politie binnen. Volgens De Gelderlander zakte rond die tijd een man met fikse verwondingen ineen op de Korenmarkt, een horecaplein in Arnhem met veel terrassen. De hulpdiensten rukten met groot materieel uit. Op dat moment zaten er veel mensen op de terrassen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In Arnhem, multiple people were injured in stabbings in the city center last night. This was confirmed by a police spokesperson following reporting by De Gelderlander. The newspaper writes that the stabbings were probably preceded by a large argument. The first report reached police around 9:30 p.m.","context_en":"In Arnhem, multiple people were injured in stabbings in the city center last night. This was confirmed by a police spokesperson following reporting by De Gelderlander. The newspaper writes that the stabbings were probably preceded by a large argument. The first report reached police around 9:30 p.m.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633077","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e13367b85aad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AREQUIPA","what":"Arequipa: modifican horario de procesión del Cristo Morado por elevadas temperaturas","headline":"Arequipa: Procession schedule for Cristo Morado changed due to high temperatures","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Debido a las temperaturas elevadas, que se registran en las últimas semanas en la ciudad de Arequipa, la Hermandad del Señor de los Milagros del templo San Agustín modificó el horario del recorrido procesional de la s…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Debido a las temperaturas elevadas, que se registran en las últimas semanas en la ciudad de Arequipa, la Hermandad del Señor de los Milagros del templo San Agustín modificó el horario del recorrido procesional de la sagrada imagen que salía al mediodía, pero a partir de este año lo hará a las 15:00 horas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Due to the high temperatures recorded in recent weeks in the city of Arequipa, the Brotherhood of the Lord of Miracles at the San Agustín temple changed the schedule of the procession for the sacred image, which used to depart at noon but from this year will depart at 15:00 hours.","context_en":"Due to the high temperatures recorded in recent weeks in the city of Arequipa, the Brotherhood of the Lord of Miracles at the San Agustín temple changed the schedule of the procession for the sacred image, which used to depart at noon but from this year will depart at 15:00 hours.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:17000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-arequipa-modifican-horario-procesion-del-cristo-morado-elevadas-temperaturas-1093926.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"88724d0d1b72","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:24:25.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ECUADOR","what":"El insólito caso de las 32 iguanas marinas que una ciudadana rusa intentó sacar de Ecuador","headline":"The unusual case of the 32 marine iguanas that a Russian citizen tried to take out of Ecuador","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Ministerio de Ambiente de Ecuador informó este martes 29 de septiembre, que coordinó el retorno hacia las Islas Galápagos de 24 iguanas marinas","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Ministerio de Ambiente de Ecuador informó este martes 29 de septiembre, que coordinó el retorno hacia las Islas Galápagos de 24 iguanas marinas","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Ecuador's Ministry of Environment reported on Tuesday, September 29, that it coordinated the return to the Galapagos Islands of 24 marine iguanas.","context_en":"Ecuador's Ministry of Environment reported on Tuesday, September 29, that it coordinated the return to the Galapagos Islands of 24 marine iguanas.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/el-insolito-caso-de-las-32-iguanas-marinas-que-una-ciudadana-rusa-intento-sacar-de-ecuador/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d2060d1a3b3f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:19:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW JERSEY","what":"Mejoró la Bicolor: Perú empató 1-1 con la selección de México en Nueva Jersey","headline":"Peru improved: Peru tied 1-1 with Mexico in New Jersey","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"En su mejor actuación de los últimos meses, la selección de Perú empató 1-1 con el combinado de México, en el partido amistoso que ambos equipos jugaron esta noche en el Sports Illustrated Stadium de Harrison, Nueva J…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"En su mejor actuación de los últimos meses, la selección de Perú empató 1-1 con el combinado de México, en el partido amistoso que ambos equipos jugaron esta noche en el Sports Illustrated Stadium de Harrison, Nueva Jersey, Estados Unidos.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"In its best performance in recent months, the Peru national team tied 1-1 with Mexico in a friendly match played tonight at Sports Illustrated Stadium in Harrison, New Jersey, United States.","context_en":"In its best performance in recent months, the Peru national team tied 1-1 with Mexico in a friendly match played tonight at Sports Illustrated Stadium in Harrison, New Jersey, United States.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-mejoro-bicolor-peru-empato-11-con-seleccion-mexico-nueva-jersey-1093932.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0383f058fd4d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:19:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIETNAM","what":"Hind Rajab Foundation files complaint in Vietnam against IDF reservist vacationer","headline":"The Hind Rajab Foundation filed a complaint in Vietnam against an Israeli reservist on vacation","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Belgium-based organization, which has pursued IDF soldiers traveling abroad after serving in Gaza and Lebanon, filed the complaint against H.G., a young Israeli.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Belgium-based organization, which has pursued IDF soldiers traveling abroad after serving in Gaza and Lebanon, filed the complaint against H.G., a young Israeli.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/diaspora/antisemitism/article-910132","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"32dbec6b33ab","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:14:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Bureau of Prisons ordered to restore its union's contract","headline":"A federal judge ordered the Bureau of Prisons on Tuesday to restore its union contract after the director canceled it last year","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A federal judge on Tuesday ordered the Bureau of Prisons to reinstate a collective bargaining agreement with the agency's union after the bureau's director abruptly terminated it last year.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A federal judge on Tuesday ordered the Bureau of Prisons to reinstate a collective bargaining agreement with the agency's union after the bureau's director abruptly terminated it last year.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/judge-orders-bureau-of-prisons-to-restore-union-collective-bargaining-agreement/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9276f227f783","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T01:00:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Conoce la plataforma JNE Fiscaliza para elecciones municipales y regionales","headline":"Peru’s National Elections Board launches JNE Fiscaliza platform for municipal and regional elections","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Jurado Nacional de Elecciones (JNE) presentó hoy la plataforma JNE Fiscaliza, con la finalidad de dar información en tiempo real, así como las acciones de fiscalización del proceso que se desarrollará en todo el pa…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Jurado Nacional de Elecciones (JNE) presentó hoy la plataforma JNE Fiscaliza, con la finalidad de dar información en tiempo real, así como las acciones de fiscalización del proceso que se desarrollará en todo el país el próximo domingo 4 de octubre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The National Elections Jury (JNE) presented today the JNE Fiscaliza platform in order to provide real-time information as well as oversight actions for the process that will take place across the country next Sunday, October 4.","context_en":"The National Elections Jury (JNE) presented today the JNE Fiscaliza platform in order to provide real-time information as well as oversight actions for the process that will take place across the country next Sunday, October 4.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Andina","url":"https://andina.pe/agencia/noticia-conoce-plataforma-jne-fiscaliza-para-elecciones-municipales-y-regionales-1093839.aspx","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3e227b2b1084","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:39:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Eric Cantor named new president of pharma trade group","headline":"PhRMA named former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor its president on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Click in for more news from The Hill {beacon} Healthcare Healthcare The Big Story Eric Cantor named new president of pharma trade group PhRMA, the leading lobbying and trade organization for the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Click in for more news from The Hill {beacon} Healthcare Healthcare The Big Story Eric Cantor named new president of pharma trade group PhRMA, the leading lobbying and trade organization for the U.S. pharmaceutical industry, announced Tuesday that former Republican House Majority Leader Eric Cantor will be taking over as its president. © Greg…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/6119349-eric-cantor-phrma-president-newsletter/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8541911dff18","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:37:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Senate blocks Democratic effort to force report on West Bank violence","headline":"Senate Republicans blocked a Democratic push to force a State Department report on Israeli violence against US citizens in the West Bank","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Republican senators blocked a Democratic attempt to bring up a resolution that would force the Trump administration to report on violence and human rights violations occurring in the West Bank.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Republican senators blocked a Democratic attempt to bring up a resolution that would force the Trump administration to report on violence and human rights violations occurring in the West Bank. The measure would have required the State Department to report on violence against US citizens by Israel in the West Bank, or stop aid to…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Republicans have held the Senate majority since the 2024 elections. Democrats have used procedural votes to press the Trump administration on its conduct of the war with Iran that began with US and Israeli strikes on 28 February 2026. That conflict has narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz after a short-lived June memorandum collapsed in early July.\n\nOn 29 September 2026 Senate Republicans blocked a Democratic resolution that would have required the State Department to produce a report on violence and human rights violations in the West Bank. The measure would have compelled the department to detail violence against US citizens by Israel in the West Bank or to cut off related aid.\n\nThe resolution failed to advance. The Senate now returns to other business while the administration continues its military campaign against Iran without the additional reporting obligation on West Bank matters.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/6119354-senate-blocks-west-bank-resolution/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910141","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"afcc47b261d3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:35:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"QUEENSTOWN","what":"Police seek man on Queenstown walking track as search for missing woman Erika Rodrigues Coelho continues","headline":"Police in New Zealand seek man on Queenstown walking track as search for missing woman Erika Rodrigues Coelho continues","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Erika Rodrigues Coelho has not been seen or heard from in weeks, with her rental car found near Coronet Peak.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Erika Rodrigues Coelho has not been seen or heard from in weeks, with her rental car found near Coronet Peak.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/emergencies_local/1657652/police-seek-man-on-queenstown-walking-track-as-search-for-missing-woman-erika-rodrigues-coelho-continues","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7a9a8111cdbe","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:21:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CHRISTCHURCH","what":"Woman found dead at Christchurch home, police launch homicide probe","headline":"Police in New Zealand launched a homicide probe after a woman was found dead at a house on Purchas St in Christchurch on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A woman was found dead at a house on Purchas St in Edgeware early on Wednesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A woman was found dead at a house on Purchas St in Edgeware early on Wednesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1656101/woman-found-dead-at-christchurch-home-police-launch-homicide-probe","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/hallan-sin-vida-a-mujer-dentro-de-inmueble-en-la-colonia-morelos-no-presentaba-signos-de-violencia/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f53618a1f150","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:17:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Boeing lands $20B-plus Navy deal for sixth-generation fighter to deliver ‘absolute air superiority’","headline":"Boeing won a contract worth more than 20 billion dollars from the US Navy to build a sixth-generation fighter to replace the F/A-18 Super Hornet and EA-18G Growler","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Boeing's $20 billion F/A-XX contract marks the Navy's first sixth-generation fighter, designed to replace F/A-18 Super Hornets and EA-18G Growlers.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Boeing's $20 billion F/A-XX contract marks the Navy's first sixth-generation fighter, designed to replace F/A-18 Super Hornets and EA-18G Growlers.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/boeing-lands-20b-plus-navy-deal-sixth-generation-fighter-deliver-absolute-air-superiority","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/boeing-lands-20b-plus-navy-deal-for-sixth-generation-fighter-to-deliver-absolute-air-superiority/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2669536b9046","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:10:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"A.I. Is ‘Better Informed’ Than Doctors, Kennedy Tells Industry-Backed MAHA Summit","headline":"RFK Jr said AI knows more than doctors at a company-backed health meeting","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The health secretary, Vice President JD Vance and other top officials addressed a conference sponsored by corporations, including A.I.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The health secretary, Vice President JD Vance and other top officials addressed a conference sponsored by corporations, including A.I. companies and others with business before the government.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. spoke at a conference in Washington on September 30, 2026. The event was organized by companies that include artificial intelligence firms and others that hold contracts or regulatory matters with the federal government. Vice President JD Vance and additional senior officials also addressed the gathering.\n\nKennedy told the audience that artificial intelligence systems hold more current medical knowledge than practicing physicians. He presented the comparison as a reason to expand the role of those systems inside federal health programs and regulatory reviews.\n\nThe remarks placed the conference at the center of debates over how much authority to grant private technology companies in decisions that set drug approvals, treatment standards, and payment rules under Medicare and Medicaid. The administration has not yet released the specific executive actions or statutory changes that would follow from the statements.","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/health/maha-summit-kennedy-vance.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"3a94f5981513","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pentagon says Golden Dome shield covers everyone and will cost $185B, CBO says it will cost $1.2T","headline":"Pentagon says its Golden Dome shield covers everyone and will cost 185 billion dollars but the Congressional Budget Office estimates 1.2 trillion dollars over 20 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Congressional Budget Office estimates a notional system consistent with the administration's missile defense goals could cost about $1.2 trillion over 20 years","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Congressional Budget Office estimates a notional system consistent with the administration's missile defense goals could cost about $1.2 trillion over 20 years","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/nation/states/center-square/pentagon-says-golden-dome-covers-everyone-cbo-says-it-will-cost-12t?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0aa7a6b064bf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"PENNSYLVANIA","what":"Pennsylvania House passes bill requiring patients be informed of AI use in health care decisions","headline":"Pennsylvania House passed a bill that requires health care patients to be told when facilities use artificial intelligence for clinical decisions","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Health care patients would have to be told when a facility is using artificial intelligence to make clinical decisions under a bill that got strong bipartisan support Wednesday in passing the Pennsylvania House.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Health care patients would have to be told when a facility is using artificial intelligence to make clinical decisions under a bill that got strong bipartisan support Wednesday in passing the Pennsylvania House.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/nation/states/center-square/house-passes-bill-requiring-patients-be-told-ai-use-health-care?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"15ce24e44f33","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"COLORADO","what":"Colorado sues feds to block construction of ICE detention centers","headline":"Colorado sued the federal government to stop construction of ICE detention centers in the state","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Weiser released a press statement saying, “Coloradans are deeply worried about plans to open a new immigrant detention facility in Hudson to carry out the Trump administration’s inhumane — and often illegal — mass dep…","quote":"Coloradans are deeply worried about plans to open a new immigrant detention facility in Hudson to carry out the Trump administration’s inhumane — and often illegal — mass deportation scheme.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Weiser released a press statement saying, “Coloradans are deeply worried about plans to open a new immigrant detention facility in Hudson to carry out the Trump administration’s inhumane — and often illegal — mass deportation scheme.”","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/nation/states/center-square/colorado-sues-feds-over-ice-detention-centers?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"49244480b9d9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Kush Desai departs White House for role at the Office of Director of National Intelligence","headline":"Kush Desai left the White House to take a job at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Desai served as senior White House deputy press secretary and special assistant to the president, handling the press for the White House on some of its biggest issues, including health, trade and economics.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Desai served as senior White House deputy press secretary and special assistant to the president, handling the press for the White House on some of its biggest issues, including health, trade and economics.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/government/white-house/kush-desai-departs-white-house-role-office-director-national-intelligence?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"92f261ed4cc2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Senate committee advances Dr. Nicole Saphier's nomination for surgeon general","headline":"Senate committee advanced Dr Nicole Saphier for surgeon general in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Earlier this month, Saphier, a radiologist and former Fox News contributor, appeared before the committee, where she was grilled on her positions concerning childhood vaccines.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Earlier this month, Saphier, a radiologist and former Fox News contributor, appeared before the committee, where she was grilled on her positions concerning childhood vaccines.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/politics-policy/health/senate-committee-advances-dr-nichole-saphiers-nomination-surgeon-general?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"497232cf217c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Pentagon data breach exposes info of more than 2.7 million US military and civilian personnel","headline":"Pentagon data breach exposed personal information of 2.76 million living US military and civilian personnel and 294,000 who are dead","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Pentagon official said the breach affected 2.76 million living people and another 294,000 who are deceased.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Pentagon official said the breach affected 2.76 million living people and another 294,000 who are deceased.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/index%2Ephp/government/security/pentagon-data-breach-reveals-info-more-27-million-us-military-and-civilian?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/pentagon-data-breach-exposes-social-security-numbers-personal-info-military-civilian-personnel","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dccc6fe13744","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MELBOURNE","what":"Press conference - Footscray","headline":"Assistant Treasurer Daniel Mulino announced the Melbourne Airport Rail Link project in Footscray, Melbourne, Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DANIEL MULINO, ASSISTANT TREASURER: Hi, I'm Daniel Mulino.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"DANIEL MULINO, ASSISTANT TREASURER: Hi, I'm Daniel Mulino. It's great to be here in Melbourne's west in my electorate for an announcement in relation to a very significant transport and infrastructure project. The Melbourne Airport Rail Link is going to transform transport in the West and also be a major economic contributor to Victoria. This is a project that is long overdue, so it's wonderful to be here today for this announcement.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Australia","url":"https://www.pm.gov.au/media/press-conference-footscray","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"70cec6512357","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MELBOURNE","what":"Melbourne Airport Rail Stage 2 set for take-off","headline":"Australia started work on Melbourne Airport Rail Stage 2 in the coming weeks","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Albanese and Carroll Labor Governments are getting on with building Melbourne Airport Rail Stage 2, with work set to begin in the coming weeks.It will include a new 7.4-kilometre rail line from Albion toward the A…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Albanese and Carroll Labor Governments are getting on with building Melbourne Airport Rail Stage 2, with work set to begin in the coming weeks.It will include a new 7.4-kilometre rail line from Albion toward the Airport precinct via a brand-new Keilor East station, as part of the $12 billion joint commitment from the Albanese and Carroll Labor Governments.The line will connect directly to the Metro Tunnel and feature the same high-capacity signalling to enable frequent services.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Australia","url":"https://www.pm.gov.au/media/melbourne-airport-rail-stage-2-set-take","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"566d3196b184","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Federal Court Dismisses Another Challenge to Energy Development in Gulf of America","headline":"US court dismissed a challenge to US Fish and Wildlife Service approval for oil and gas work in the Gulf of America","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia yesterday dismissed a lawsuit challenging the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s 2018 biological opinion and 2025 consultation determination for oil and gas activities in the Gulf of America.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/federal-court-dismisses-another-challenge-energy-development-gulf-america","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c2cb3dfb2f6e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"SYRACUSE","what":"Illegal Alien from Honduras and Kansas Woman Plead Guilty to Fraudulently Seeking to Obtain Custody of an Unaccompanied Alien Child","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Romulo Hernandez Murillo, 46, an illegal alien from Honduras, and Lisa Marie Lopez Perdomo, 49, of Syracuse, Kansas, pleaded guilty today to submitting a sponsorship application containing false statements to the Depa…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Romulo Hernandez Murillo, 46, an illegal alien from Honduras, and Lisa Marie Lopez Perdomo, 49, of Syracuse, Kansas, pleaded guilty today to submitting a sponsorship application containing false statements to the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) to gain custody of an unaccompanied alien child (UAC).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"immigration","sim":0.6052},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$3e","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/illegal-alien-honduras-and-kansas-woman-plead-guilty-fraudulently-seeking-obtain-custody","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"056028679131","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"INDEPENDENCE","what":"Independence Blue Cross to Pay $22.5M to Resolve False Claims Act Allegations","headline":"Independence Blue Cross agreed to pay 22.5 million dollars to settle claims it gave Medicare inaccurate diagnosis codes for its Advantage plan members in Pennsylvania","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Independence Blue Cross (IBX), an insurance company incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania, has agreed to pay $22.5 million to resolve allegations that it violated the False Claims Act by failing to withdraw inac…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Independence Blue Cross (IBX), an insurance company incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania, has agreed to pay $22.5 million to resolve allegations that it violated the False Claims Act by failing to withdraw inaccurate and untruthful diagnosis codes for its Medicare Advantage Plan enrollees in order to improperly retain overpayments from Medicare.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/independence-blue-cross-pay-225m-resolve-false-claims-act-allegations","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/signal-diagnostics-agrees-pay-over-20m-settle-false-claims-act-allegations-failing-refund","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"81c5d10bce4c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"MINNESOTA","what":"Justice Department Files Judicial Misconduct Complaint Alleging MN Judges Made Improper and Unethical Comments to the New York Times","headline":"The United States filed a judicial misconduct complaint against three Minnesota federal judges for improper comments to the New York Times","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Today, The Department of Justice filed a complaint of judicial misconduct against Hon.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Today, The Department of Justice filed a complaint of judicial misconduct against Hon. Patrick J. Schiltz, Hon. John R. Tunheim, and Anonymous District Judges at the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-files-judicial-misconduct-complaint-alleging-mn-judges-made-improper-and","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6d6d8be14a5e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-30T00:00:00.000Z","date_only":true,"place":"U.S.","what":"Department of Justice Indicts Ten Aliens for Voter Fraud in Minnesota","headline":"United States indicted 10 people for voter fraud in Minnesota on September 24 2026","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Attorney General Todd Blanche, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Markwayne Mullin, and United States Attorney Daniel N.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Attorney General Todd Blanche, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Markwayne Mullin, and United States Attorney Daniel N. Rosen announced that a federal grand jury indicted ten defendants separately on September 24, 2026, for voter fraud. All defendants have made their initial appearances in federal court.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"immigration","sim":0.5155},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$3f","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/department-justice-indicts-ten-aliens-voter-fraud-minnesota","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-charges-and-guilty-pleas-involving-12-individuals-election","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9f952a654f44","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:59:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PITTSBURGH","what":"Suspect accused of killing Pittsburgh pediatrician sexually assaulted woman hours earlier: police","headline":"Police say Elijah Hemingway sexually assaulted a woman in Wilkinsburg hours before he fatally stabbed Pittsburgh pediatrician in a nearby home","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Elijah Hemingway allegedly sexually assaulted a woman in Wilkinsburg before entering a nearby home and fatally stabbing a Pittsburgh pediatrician.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Elijah Hemingway allegedly sexually assaulted a woman in Wilkinsburg before entering a nearby home and fatally stabbing a Pittsburgh pediatrician.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/suspect-accused-killing-pittsburgh-pediatrician-sexually-assaulted-woman-hours-earlier-police","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/30/us-news/pittsburgh-suspect-elijah-hemingway-allegedly-sexually-assaulted-woman-hours-before-doctors-killing/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"24a44ade8271","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:51:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan industrial output in August down 1.7% on month","headline":"Japan factory output fell 1.7 percent in August from the month before","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan industrial output in August down 1.7% on month Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"BREAKING NEWS: Japan industrial output in August down 1.7% on month Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86736","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"4eca0077081e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:50:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"FAA investigates software glitch in some Boeing 737 Max jets","headline":"The FAA investigated a software glitch in some Boeing 737 Max jets that could disengage an automated flight guidance system during an aborted landing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The FAA is investigating a software glitch in some Boeing 737 Max jets​ that could prompt an automated flight guidance system to disengage during an aborted landing.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The FAA is investigating a software glitch in some Boeing 737 Max jets​ that could prompt an automated flight guidance system to disengage during an aborted landing.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/boeing-737-max-software-glitch-aborted-landings-faa-investigation/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e6f86878577","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:41:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PERU","what":"Perú ha registrado casi 700 sismos en lo que va de 2026","headline":"Peru has recorded nearly 700 earthquakes so far in 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El territorio de Perú ha registrado 697 sismos en lo que va de 2026, el último de ellos durante la madrugada de este martes","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El territorio de Perú ha registrado 697 sismos en lo que va de 2026, el último de ellos durante la madrugada de este martes","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The territory of Peru has registered 697 earthquakes so far in 2026, the latest of them during the early hours of this Tuesday.","context_en":"The territory of Peru has registered 697 earthquakes so far in 2026, the latest of them during the early hours of this Tuesday.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/peru-ha-registrado-casi-700-sismos-en-lo-que-va-de-2026/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Correo","url":"https://diariocorreo.pe/peru/igp-reporta-mas-de-600-sismos-en-peru-durante-2026-ultimo-movimiento-fue-de-magnitud-52-en-loreto-noticia/","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6d1cc50c4faa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:39:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TENNESSEE","what":"US Supreme Court denies Christa Pike's last-ditch bid to halt execution","headline":"US Supreme Court rejects Christa Pike's last appeal to stop her execution in Tennessee","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Tennessee inmate has been awaiting execution since she was sentenced to death in 1996 for the murder of a teenage classmate.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Tennessee inmate has been awaiting execution since she was sentenced to death in 1996 for the murder of a teenage classmate.","summary":"The US Supreme Court turned down Christa Pike's request to halt her death by lethal injection. Pike is set to die at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on Wednesday at Riverbend Maximum Security Institution in Nashville. Tennessee Governor Bill Lee also denied her clemency on Monday. Pike has been on death row since her 1996 conviction for the 1995 murder of 19-year-old Colleen Slemmer.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.5354},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"Christa Pike has sat on Tennessee's death row since a jury convicted her of first-degree murder and sentenced her to death in 1996. At 18 she and her boyfriend killed 19-year-old Colleen Slemmer at a Knoxville job-training camp for troubled teens. Witnesses said Pike later showed them a piece of the victim's skull and bragged about the crime.\n\nOn September 29 the US Supreme Court denied Pike's final petition seeking to block the lethal-injection execution scheduled for the next morning. Tennessee Governor Bill Lee had already refused clemency the day before. The denial cleared the final legal barrier after years of appeals that centered on Pike's age at the time of the offense and claims about adolescent brain development.\n\nPike is set to become the first woman put to death in Tennessee in more than two centuries. She remains scheduled for execution at 11 a.m. Eastern at Riverbend Maximum Security Institution in Nashville.","sources":[{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/christa-pike-set-to-become-first-woman-executed-in-tennessee-in-200-years/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6119030-supreme-court-tennessee-execution-christa-pike/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwe879654mj7o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fbe1df26fce1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MEXICO","what":"Investigators announce break in Mexico’s most notorious unsolved crime","headline":"Mexican officials said searches at two funeral homes yielded new evidence in the 2014 disappearance of 43 students in southern Mexico","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Officials say searches of two funeral parlors have shined new light on the 2014 disappearance of 43 college students in southern Mexico.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Officials say searches of two funeral parlors have shined new light on the 2014 disappearance of 43 college students in southern Mexico.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/09/29/investigators-announce-break-mexicos-most-notorious-unsolved-crime/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"5e012f1cc175","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:32:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Dólar BCV rozó nuevo máximo histórico mientras el euro sigue en caída libre","headline":"BCV dollar neared new historic high while the euro continues in free fall","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV) actualizó este martes el tipo de cambio oficial, que regirá hasta el miércoles 30 de septiembre.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El Banco Central de Venezuela (BCV) actualizó este martes el tipo de cambio oficial, que regirá hasta el miércoles 30 de septiembre. lapatilla.com Según","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) updated the official exchange rate this Tuesday, which will be in force until Wednesday, September 30.","context_en":"The Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) updated the official exchange rate this Tuesday, which will be in force until Wednesday, September 30.","lang":"es","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/dolar-bcv-rozo-nuevo-maximo-historico-mientras-el-euro-sigue-en-caida-libre/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ccdfbfc413a5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:29:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Scientists identify new species of penguin in subantarctic waters — the first in over a century","headline":"Scientists found a new penguin species in subantarctic waters the first in more than 100 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"For generations, gentoo penguins were classified as a single species.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"For generations, gentoo penguins were classified as a single species.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/29/science/scientists-identify-new-species-of-penguin-in-subantarctic-waters-the-first-in-over-a-century/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"654bbbae4dc6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:27:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Venezuelan man shot by ICE in Texas is charged with assault","headline":"Venezuela charged Venezuelan man Wilber Rafael Garces-Perez with assault in Texas after he struck an ICE agent with his car mirror while driving away","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Wilber Rafael Garces-Perez is accused of striking an agent with his car's side-view mirror while driving away.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Wilber Rafael Garces-Perez is accused of striking an agent with his car's side-view mirror while driving away.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Department of Justice","url":"https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/illegal-alien-venezuela-charged-assaulting-and-resisting-federal-officer-austin","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c63eqgz41n0xo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/immigration/2026/09/29/immigrant-shot-by-ice-austin-is-charged-with-assault-by-justice-department/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"ac7531ab1468","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:21:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Appeals court signals support for contempt inquiry on deportation flights","headline":"An appeals court backed a contempt inquiry after Trump officials defied a 2025 order to turn back planes carrying Venezuelan migrants in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Judge James E.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Judge James E. Boasberg started the inquiry after Trump officials did not abide by his orders in 2025 to turn back planes carrying Venezuelan migrants.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2026/09/29/appeals-court-signals-support-contempt-inquiry-deportation-flights/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"63a315c5c350","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:15:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Chinese AI tool told researchers how to make bioweapons","headline":"Chinese AI models K2.6 and K3 Swarm told researchers how to make bioweapons in July tests by Mindgard","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Mindgard said it discovered in July that Kimi models K2.6 and K3 Swarm could evade developer's safety limits.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Mindgard said it discovered in July that Kimi models K2.6 and K3 Swarm could evade developer's safety limits.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cmrergq3j7lgo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c9fbfd64c459","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:14:44.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Netanyahu klaagt media aan die berichtten over waarschuwingen voor 7 oktober","headline":"Netanyahu sues media outlets that reported on warnings before 7 October","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De Israëlische premier Netanyahu heeft een smaadzaak aangespannen tegen drie mediabedrijven en zes journalisten in zijn land.","quote":"verraad van binnenuit","quote_en":"betrayal from within","context":"De Israëlische premier Netanyahu heeft een smaadzaak aangespannen tegen drie mediabedrijven en zes journalisten in zijn land. Aanleiding is het bericht dat Netanyahu persoonlijk waarschuwingen had gekregen over de aanval van Hamas op Israël op 7 oktober 2023, maar dat hij die niet had doorgegeven aan de Israëlische veiligheidschefs. Het nieuws was onthuld door twee journalisten van de Israëlische krant Haaretz in een boek. Daarna berichtten ook andere media erover. De zaak die Netanyahu heeft aangespannen is gericht tegen Haaretz, Yedioth Ahronot, Ynet News en Channel 12.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu has filed a libel suit against three media companies and six journalists in his country. The trigger is reporting that Netanyahu personally received warnings about Hamas's attack on Israel on 7 October 2023 but did not pass them on to Israeli security chiefs. The news was first revealed by two journalists from the Israeli newspaper Haaretz in a book, after which","context_en":"Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu has filed a libel suit against three media companies and six journalists in his country. The trigger is reporting that Netanyahu personally received warnings about Hamas's attack on Israel on 7 October 2023 but did not pass them on to Israeli security chiefs. The news was first revealed by two journalists from the Israeli newspaper Haaretz in a book, after which","lang":"nl","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633076","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c6926475f716","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:14:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WESTERN AUSTRALIA","what":"Five people in custody after man shot near WA town of Geraldton","headline":"Police took five people into custody after a man was shot in Moonyoonooka near Geraldton in Western Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The 32-year-old man suffered \"serious non-life-threatening\" injuries after being shot in Moonyoonooka in Western Australia's Midwest in the early hours of the morning, prompting a huge police response.","quote":"serious non-life-threatening","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The 32-year-old man suffered \"serious non-life-threatening\" injuries after being shot in Moonyoonooka in Western Australia's Midwest in the early hours of the morning, prompting a huge police response.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/man-taken-to-geraldton-hospital-after-moonyoonooka-incident/107210186","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"896fcc512bbc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:09:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"Army rescues 46 kidnapped victims, neutralises suspected militia member","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Army rescues 46 kidnapped victims, neutralises suspected militia member Troops of the Nigerian Army have rescued 46 kidnapped victims and neutralised a suspected militia member in separate operations in the last 24 ho…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Army rescues 46 kidnapped victims, neutralises suspected militia member Troops of the Nigerian Army have rescued 46 kidnapped victims and neutralised a suspected militia member in separate operations in the last 24 hours across the country. News Agency of Nigeria","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"News Agency of Nigeria","url":"https://nannews.ng/army-rescues-46-kidnapped-victims-neutralises-suspected-militia-member/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"78b17f3fa69f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:08:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"EPA to ‘reconsider’ air quality rules as Texas faces diesel price ‘disaster’","headline":"EPA reconsidered air quality rules after Texas officials said they caused economic harm and diesel prices spiked","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced Tuesday it would “reconsider” air-quality regulations amid Texas’s diesel price “disaster.” The letter sent by EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin to Texas Gov.","quote":"significant economic harm.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced Tuesday it would “reconsider” air-quality regulations amid Texas’s diesel price “disaster.” The letter sent by EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin to Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) responded to concern from officials in the Lone Star State that rules from the Biden and Obama administrations are causing “significant economic harm.” “Texas…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/6119251-epa-reconsiders-texas-air-regulations/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2026/09/28/texas-governor-declares-emergency-bring-down-fuel-prices/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"191384925d0f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:05:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VENEZUELA","what":"Alexander “Mimou” Vargas fue excarcelado tras su segunda detención y reapareció en un gimnasio (VIDEO)","headline":"Alexander “Mimou” Vargas released after second detention and reappeared at a gym (VIDEO)","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El exbasquetbolista y exfuncionario vinculado al régimen chavista, Alexander “Mimou” Vargas, reapareció este martes 29 de septiembre en redes sociales, luego de ser excarcelado","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El exbasquetbolista y exfuncionario vinculado al régimen chavista, Alexander “Mimou” Vargas, reapareció este martes 29 de septiembre en redes sociales, luego de ser excarcelado","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Former basketball player and ex-official linked to the Chavista regime, Alexander “Mimou” Vargas, reappeared this Tuesday, September 29, on social media after being released from prison.","context_en":"Former basketball player and ex-official linked to the Chavista regime, Alexander “Mimou” Vargas, reappeared this Tuesday, September 29, on social media after being released from prison.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/alexander-mimou-vargas-fue-excarcelado-tras-su-segunda-detencion-y-reaparecio-en-un-gimnasio-video/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1354ce0f04bc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T23:00:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Unearthed audit exposes vulnerable Dem's handling of COVID relief funds: 'Gross oversight'","headline":"A federal audit found that Florida Rep. Jared Moskowitz failed to monitor 1.23 billion dollars in COVID-19 relief funds at the state Division of Emergency Management","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A federal audit found Rep.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A federal audit found Rep. Jared Moskowitz's Florida Division of Emergency Management failed to monitor $1.23 billion in COVID-19 relief funding.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/unearthed-audit-exposes-vulnerable-dems-handling-covid-relief-funds","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa7571afcc69","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:52:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Treasury confirms plan to auto-enroll millions of children in Trump accounts","headline":"Treasury Department will auto enroll more than 60 million children under 18 in Trump Accounts under new rules released Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Treasury Department will automatically enroll millions of children in Trump Accounts under new rules released Tuesday, eliminating the need for parents to sign up for the investment program.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Treasury Department will automatically enroll millions of children in Trump Accounts under new rules released Tuesday, eliminating the need for parents to sign up for the investment program. The auto enrollment will create accounts for more than 60 million additional children under the age of 18, according to department guidance. The move is intended…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6119209-treasury-auto-enrolls-trump-accounts/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/politics-policy/finance/treasury-says-it-will-auto-enroll-millions-children-trump-accounts-through?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"26bb69132a02","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:52:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DAEJEON","what":"대전대 제12대 총장에 남상호 현 총장 재선임","headline":"Nam Sang-ho reappointed as 12th president of Daejeon University","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kukmin Ilbo · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"대전대 제12대 총장에 남상호 현 총장 재선임","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Nam Sang-ho, the current president, has been reappointed as the 12th president of Daejeon University.","context_en":"Nam Sang-ho, the current president, has been reappointed as the 12th president of Daejeon University.","lang":"ko","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kukmin Ilbo","url":"https://www.kmib.co.kr/article/view.asp?arcid=9000018663","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"af75cf7723ad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:52:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SUMY","what":"Russian guided bomb strikes on Sumy: two killed and nine injured in one day – photo","headline":"Russian guided bombs killed two and injured nine in Ukraine's Sumy on 29 September","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russian forces attacked Sumy with guided bombs on 29 September, killing two people and injuring nine, including three children, while damaging houses, schools, graves and other civilian sites.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russian forces attacked Sumy with guided bombs on 29 September, killing two people and injuring nine, including three children, while damaging houses, schools, graves and other civilian sites.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$40","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/30/8055693/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"41e5ecd5c915","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:48:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"AI companies sign voluntary accord on safety controls with Trump","headline":"Trump and AI company leaders signed a voluntary safety agreement in Washington on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"US President Donald Trump and leaders of major AI companies signed a voluntary accord Tuesday to strengthen safety as the technology faces growing public concern.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US President Donald Trump and leaders of major AI companies signed a voluntary accord Tuesday to strengthen safety as the technology faces growing public concern. The agreement calls for internal controls, independent audits and board oversight while Trump rejected calls for government restrictions and urged rapid AI development to go ahead.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/technology/20260929-trump-says-ai-companies-sign-voluntary-accord-on-safety-controls","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/29/trump-ai-voluntary-safety-white-house-zuckerberg","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c1490b196a82","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:43:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS","what":"Self-governing US territory losing 1000 people a year as economy struggles","headline":"The Northern Mariana Islands lost about 1000 people a year as its economy struggled, a senior official told US federal officials","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Northern Mariana Islands is losing about 1000 people a year because of a lack of economic opportunities, a senior Commonwealth official has told US federal officials.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Northern Mariana Islands is losing about 1000 people a year because of a lack of economic opportunities, a senior Commonwealth official has told US federal officials.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/pacific/1658582/self-governing-us-territory-losing-1000-people-a-year-as-economy-struggles","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d990c6c045cc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:43:22.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JERUSALEM","what":"'Rather die than be drafted': Thousands take to Jerusalem's streets in haredi anti-draft march","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The march is taking place in the Kikar HaShabbat area, the along Shmuel HaNavi and Bar Ilan streets in the capital city.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The march is taking place in the Kikar HaShabbat area, the along Shmuel HaNavi and Bar Ilan streets in the capital city.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000065","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910121","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a47e27f71de6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:38:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BOLIVIA","what":"Bolivia y EEUU unirán fuerzas contra el narcotráfico con nuevas unidades de élite cerca de Brasil","headline":"Bolivia and US to join forces against drug trafficking with new elite units near Brazil","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"El ministro boliviano de Gobierno (Interior), Marco Antonio Oviedo, anunció este martes 29 de septiembre la creación de dos unidades de élite en zonas","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"El ministro boliviano de Gobierno (Interior), Marco Antonio Oviedo, anunció este martes 29 de septiembre la creación de dos unidades de élite en zonas","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Bolivian Minister of Government (Interior) Marco Antonio Oviedo announced this Tuesday, September 29, the creation of two elite units in border areas.","context_en":"Bolivian Minister of Government (Interior) Marco Antonio Oviedo announced this Tuesday, September 29, the creation of two elite units in border areas.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/bolivia-y-eeuu-uniran-fuerzas-contra-el-narcotrafico-con-nuevas-unidades-de-elite-cerca-de-brasil/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"dec1fd34fe30","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:33:13.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Six Flags shuts down X2 rollercoaster after more than 100 allege brain injuries","headline":"Six Flags closed its X2 rollercoaster at Magic Mountain in California after more than 100 riders reported brain injuries","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Hundreds of riders were allegedly injured on X2, which has seats that spin 360 degrees.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Hundreds of riders were allegedly injured on X2, which has seats that spin 360 degrees.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cw14d37446d8o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2026/09/30/six-flags-magic-mountain-shuts-x2-roller-coaster-permanently-amid-lawsuits/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"3f9ceb23e673","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:31:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MICHIGAN","what":"Toddler takes loaded gun to Michigan daycare","headline":"A toddler brought a loaded gun into a Michigan daycare in Canton Township on Monday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Daycare staff members took the gun from the toddler and no one was hurt Monday in Canton Township, a community west of Detroit, police said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Daycare staff members took the gun from the toddler and no one was hurt Monday in Canton Township, a community west of Detroit, police said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/toddler-brings-loaded-gun-michigan-daycare-rcna600572","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"730ee9097125","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:29:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZAMFARA","what":"Gusau Airport passes ICAO’s quality assurance tests ahead of commercial operations","headline":"Gusau airport in Nigeria passed ICAO quality assurance tests ahead of commercial operations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"‘The airport’s Instrument Flight Procedures were subjected to ICAO’s 17-step Quality Assurance and approval process, and the airport had completed and passed all of them’.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"‘The airport’s Instrument Flight Procedures were subjected to ICAO’s 17-step Quality Assurance and approval process, and the airport had completed and passed all of them’.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/promoted/913411-gusau-airport-passes-icaos-quality-assurance-tests-ahead-of-commercial-operations.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5fc6868781ca","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:29:00.187Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"CNN, MS NOW, Politico ask judge to extend block on White House ban","headline":"CNN, MSNBC and Politico asked a judge in Washington to extend the block on the White House ban on September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"CNN, MS NOW, Politico ask judge to extend block on White House ban","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/news/2026/09/26/white-house-blocks-cnn-air-force-one-tennessee-01094061","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2026/09/30/cnn-ms-now-politico-ask-judge-extend-block-trumps-media-ban/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/cnn-ms-now-politico-ask-judge-extend-block-white-house-media-ban-2026-09-29/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/6122096-white-house-blocks-cnn-pool-trump/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/removes-cnn-press-pool-trump-upcoming-trip-texas-oklahoma-rcna600841","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"62aa11f9a461","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:27:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BULLER","what":"Two dead in Buller region, police launch homicide investigation","headline":"Police launched a homicide investigation after two people were found dead at separate addresses in New Zealand's Buller region on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two people were found dead at separate addresses in the region on Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two people were found dead at separate addresses in the region on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"RNZ","url":"https://www.rnz.co.nz/news/crime-and-justice/1655077/two-dead-in-buller-region-police-launch-homicide-investigation","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bed29312499c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:26:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ABUJA","what":"SSS arraigns four IPOB members allegedly linked to killing of operative","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The defendants are Michael Okafor, alias Onyechimeleze; Chinedu Chukwudozie, alias Kante; Chibunna Olisa, and Chigozie Olisa, alias Ability.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The defendants are Michael Okafor, alias Onyechimeleze; Chinedu Chukwudozie, alias Kante; Chibunna Olisa, and Chigozie Olisa, alias Ability.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/ssouth-east/913410-sss-arraigns-four-ipob-members-allegedly-linked-to-killing-of-operative.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fa86680a7dd5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:23:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"NYC judge orders Mamdani to redo second-home tax rollout","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Judge Wayne Ozzi ruled city officials violated property owners’ due process rights by sending tax notices without verifying their primary residences.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Judge Wayne Ozzi ruled city officials violated property owners’ due process rights by sending tax notices without verifying their primary residences.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/nyc-judge-orders-mamdani-redo-second-home-tax-rollout","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6119432-nyc-mayor-appeals-pied-a-terre-tax/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/regulation/court-battles/6119135-judge-blocks-nyc-pied-a-terre-tax/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"05dc6e57c41f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:15:43.111Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"Australia's Cochlear hit with shareholder lawsuit over 2026 earnings forecast","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Australia's Cochlear hit with shareholder lawsuit over 2026 earnings forecast","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/cochlear-defend-shareholder-class-action-over-2026-profit-forecast-2026-09-28/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"24bc293a69ac","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:15:06.688Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Lilly's experimental drug cuts weight by 21% in diabetes trial","headline":"Eli Lilly experimental drug reduced weight 21 percent in a diabetes trial, September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lilly's experimental drug cuts weight by 21% in diabetes trial","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/healthcare-pharmaceuticals/lillys-experimental-drug-cuts-weight-by-21-diabetes-trial-2026-09-29/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4f6b7226dc15","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:03:43.801Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"US NRC approves construction of nation's first small modular nuclear reactor","headline":"US nuclear regulators approved construction of the country's first small modular reactor on September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US NRC approves construction of nation's first small modular nuclear reactor","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/us-nrc-approves-construction-nations-first-small-modular-nuclear-reactor-2026-09-29/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4e2721fb64dc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:00:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"AI firms agree to ‘morally binding’ self-policing at White House","headline":"AI industry leaders signed a self-policing pledge at the White House on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"{beacon} Technology Technology The Big Story AI firms agree to ‘morally binding’ self-policing at White House Key AI industry leaders signed onto a pledge Tuesday to self-police development, President Trump and Speake…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"{beacon} Technology Technology The Big Story AI firms agree to ‘morally binding’ self-policing at White House Key AI industry leaders signed onto a pledge Tuesday to self-police development, President Trump and Speaker Mike Johnson (R-La.) announced following a meeting at the White House. © AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin The agreement, called “The White House Accord…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/newsletters/technology/6119104-ai-firms-agree-to-morally-binding-self-policing-at-white-house/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6118906-tech-ceos-sign-white-house-ai-accord/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"New York Post","url":"https://nypost.com/2026/09/29/us-news/trumps-morally-binding-artificial-intelligence-pledge-signed-by-tech-leaders-read-in-full/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/ai-leaders-agree-to-safety-reviews-in-voluntary-deal-trump-calls-morally-binding/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBN News","url":"http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/politics/2026/september/tech-leaders-agree-to-self-police-ai-ndash-trump-renames-ai-super-intelligence","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2d86ae7558b6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T22:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Questions and answers on the European Union Critical Communication System","headline":"European Commission released questions and answers on the EU Critical Communication System in Brussels, Belgium on 30 Sep 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Questions and answers Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 What is the European Union Critical Communication System?","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Questions and answers Brussels, 30 Sep 2026 What is the European Union Critical Communication System? The European Union Critical Communication System (EUCCS) connects national critical communication syst...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_26_2009","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2025","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2024","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d5c4169b9cc9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:57:34.472Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDIANA","what":"BP proposes six-year labor contract at Whiting refinery","headline":"BP offered a six-year labor contract to workers at its Whiting refinery in Indiana","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"BP proposes six-year labor contract at Whiting refinery","summary":"BP proposed the new contract on September 29 2026 at the refinery in northwest Indiana. The company has not said what changes it wants in pay or benefits. Union leaders will now review the offer and decide on next steps.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/world-at-work/bp-proposes-six-year-labor-contract-whiting-refinery-2026-09-29/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2b885b508d17","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:56:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"War Department Prepares to Protect Election From Foreign Interference","headline":"The Pentagon prepared in Washington to shield the November 3 midterm elections from foreign meddling","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Every seat in the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Every seat in the U.S. House of Representatives and a third of U.S. Senate seats, some 470 contests in all, will be decided during the U.S. midterm elections Nov. 3, and the War Department will help ensure foreign actors don't meddle in the voting.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4614290/war-department-prepares-to-protect-election-from-foreign-interference/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/the-pentagon-will-defend-the-november-elections-from-foreign-meddlers/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"77fa2c5b5102","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:48:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUBA","what":"Congelan las cuentas de las mipymes cubanas en los bancos de EE UU","headline":"US banks freeze accounts of Cuban mipymes","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Las nuevas sanciones de Washington prohíben los viajes profesionales y “people-to-people”, además de agregar fuertes restricciones a las transacciones financieras con terceros países","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Las nuevas sanciones de Washington prohíben los viajes profesionales y “people-to-people”, además de agregar fuertes restricciones a las transacciones financieras con terceros países","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The new Washington sanctions prohibit professional and \"people-to-people\" travel, in addition to adding strong restrictions on financial transactions with third countries.","context_en":"The new Washington sanctions prohibit professional and \"people-to-people\" travel, in addition to adding strong restrictions on financial transactions with third countries.","lang":"es","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$41","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/congelan-cuentas-mipymes-cubanas-bancos_1_1131353.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/09/29/eeuu-endurecio-su-presion-sobre-el-regimen-cubano-al-restringir-nuevas-operaciones-financieras/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3dec6bba8f61","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:39:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALBERTA","what":"Wednesday, September 30, 2026","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Note: All times local Edmonton, Alberta 9:30 a.m.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Note: All times local Edmonton, Alberta 9:30 a.m. The Prime Minister will attend and deliver remarks at a commemorative event for the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation. Notes for media: Open coverage Media wishing to cover the event are asked to contact media@pmo-cpm.gc.ca to confirm their attendance. Details on how to participate will be provided upon registration. Media are asked to arrive no later than 8:45 a.m.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:14000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/media-advisories/2026/09/29/wednesday-september-30-2026","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Prime Minister of Canada","url":"https://www.pm.gc.ca/en/news/media-advisories/2026/09/28/tuesday-september-29-2026","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d4889360e1e9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:35:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CALIFORNIA","what":"Newsom vetoes bill seeking student input on campus rules adopted after 2024 anti-Israel protests","headline":"California Gov. Gavin Newsom vetoed a bill that would have forced more student input on campus protest rules at state universities","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"David Bocarsly, CEO of Jewish California, told JNS that “time, place and manner restrictions have made universities safer for all students, including Jewish students.”","quote":"time, place and manner restrictions have made universities safer for all students, including Jewish students.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"David Bocarsly, CEO of Jewish California, told JNS that “time, place and manner restrictions have made universities safer for all students, including Jewish students.”","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"speech","sim":0.3812},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$42","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/newsom-vetoes-bill-seeking-student-input-on-campus-rules-adopted-after-2024-anti-israel-protests","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/newsom-signs-bill-banning-hate-speech-in-state-voter-guides","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5d9badae1420","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:31:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NETHERLANDS","what":"Kamer steunt nieuw luchtvaartbesluit, voor het eerst in 18 jaar nieuwe regels","headline":"Dutch parliament supports new aviation decree, first new rules in 18 years","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Een meerderheid in de Tweede Kamer steunt een luchtvaartbesluit waarin het kabinet voor Schiphol nieuwe regels voor de grenzen aan geluidshinder en het aantal vluchten vastlegt.","quote":"juridisch onzekere weg","quote_en":"legally uncertain path","context":"Een meerderheid in de Tweede Kamer steunt een luchtvaartbesluit waarin het kabinet voor Schiphol nieuwe regels voor de grenzen aan geluidshinder en het aantal vluchten vastlegt. Het is voor het eerst in achttien jaar dat er zo'n nieuw Luchthavenverkeerbesluit (LVB) is. Zo komt er een maximum van 478.000 vliegbewegingen per jaar, met maximaal 27.000 nachtvluchten. Dat is iets minder dan het aantal vluchten nu van rond de 499.000, waarvan 30.000 's nachts. De overlast per etmaal moet met 20 procent omlaag en 's nachts met 15 procent.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A majority in the Dutch House of Representatives supports an aviation decree in which the government sets new limits for Schiphol on noise nuisance and the number of flights. It is the first such new Airport Traffic Decree (LVB) in eighteen years.","context_en":"A majority in the Dutch House of Representatives supports an aviation decree in which the government sets new limits for Schiphol on noise nuisance and the number of flights. It is the first such new Airport Traffic Decree (LVB) in eighteen years.","lang":"nl","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633074","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5c4622762908","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:27:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ALABAMA","what":"NASA Opens 2027 Human Lander Challenge for Lunar Communications","headline":"NASA asked US college teams for ideas on lunar lander communications in 2027","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA’s 2027 Human Lander Challenge is seeking ideas from college and university students to help address one of the most critical needs for sustained lunar exploration: reliable communications.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA’s 2027 Human Lander Challenge is seeking ideas from college and university students to help address one of the most critical needs for sustained lunar exploration: reliable communications. As NASA prepares for long-term human presence on the Moon through the Artemis and Moon Base programs, communications systems will be just as important as spacecraft and","summary":"NASA opened its 2027 Human Lander Challenge. The contest seeks ideas from college and university students in the United States. It focuses on reliable communications for landers and surface work on the Moon. Up to 12 finalist teams will get $9,000 each. The top three teams will share $18,000 in prizes. Jeremy Del Greco of NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, said the work will support future Artemis missions.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$43","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/directorates/esdmd/artemis-campaign-development-division/human-landing-system-program/nasa-opens-2027-human-lander-challenge-for-lunar-communications/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f3a71502f72f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:21:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Canada’s military seeking anti-drone defences for bases, facilities","headline":"Canada's military is seeking anti-drone defences to protect its bases and facilities","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Department of National Defence says they need anti-drone defences to protect personnel, equipment and facilities across Canada.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Department of National Defence says they need anti-drone defences to protect personnel, equipment and facilities across Canada.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12077678/canadian-military-anti-drone-defences/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"360a6b8e1da7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:21:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Cotton presses Hegseth to review supply chains after F-35 parts ended up in China","headline":"Sen. Tom Cotton pressed Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth in Washington on Tuesday to review supply chains after F-35 parts ended up in China","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Welcome to The Hill’s Defense & NatSec newsletter {beacon} Defense &National Security Defense &National Security The Big Story Cotton presses Hegseth to review supply chains after F-35 parts ended up in China Sen.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Welcome to The Hill’s Defense & NatSec newsletter {beacon} Defense &National Security Defense &National Security The Big Story Cotton presses Hegseth to review supply chains after F-35 parts ended up in China Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, pressed Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on Tuesday to review the military…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/6119054-cotton-presses-hegseth-to-review-supply-chains-after-f-35-parts-ended-up-in-china/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fade57ef1320","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:21:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Inaugurates The Era of Super Intelligence","headline":"Trump signed an executive order to launch the AI-powered America.gov portal in Washington ahead of a meeting with AI executives","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"USHERING IN SUPER INTELLIGENCE: Today, President Donald J.","quote":"Artificial Intelligence","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"USHERING IN SUPER INTELLIGENCE: Today, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive Order to replace the term “Artificial Intelligence” (“AI”) with “Super Intelligence” (“SI”) in the executive branch to recognize the continuously advancing technological frontier and the limitless promise it offers the American people. RECOGNIZING THE IMMENSE OPPORTUNITY OF SI: The United States is the world","summary":"President Donald J. Trump signed the order today. It makes the executive branch use the term super intelligence or SI instead of artificial intelligence or AI. The United States leads the world in this field. The change aims to show the full promise of the technology for all Americans.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/news/2026/09/29/trump-signs-executive-order-to-launch-ai-powered-america-gov-01096992","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2026/09/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-inaugurates-the-era-of-super-intelligence/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"CBN News","url":"http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/politics/2026/september/tech-leaders-agree-to-self-police-ai-ndash-trump-renames-ai-super-intelligence","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Straight Arrow News","url":"https://san.com/cc/trump-vance-to-introduce-america-gov-new-ai-tool-for-navigating-federal-government/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e0b397221f6a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:15:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"Fox News agrees to host Texas Senate debate; no word from Paxton yet","headline":"Fox News will host a Texas Senate debate but Paxton has not said whether he will take part","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The last Senate race in Texas not to have a debate was in 2000.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The last Senate race in Texas not to have a debate was in 2000.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2026/09/29/fox-news-agrees-host-texas-senate-debate-no-word-paxton-yet/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"8a58579d67aa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:06:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Florida designates CAIR as domestic terror group","headline":"Florida named the Council on American Islamic Relations a domestic terror group","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“The free state of Florida will not launder terrorism through our schools,” the state’s attorney general said.","quote":"The free state of Florida will not launder terrorism through our schools,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“The free state of Florida will not launder terrorism through our schools,” the state’s attorney general said. “We will name these groups, cut off the money and hold those who bankroll them accountable.”","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Just the News","url":"https://justthenews.com/nation/states/florida-designates-cair-muslim-brotherhood-domestic-terrorist-groups?utm_source=justthenews.com&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=external-news-aggregators","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/florida-designates-cair-as-domestic-terror-group","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"45ac3a3e211a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:06:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MICHIGAN","what":"Michigan House declares October 2026 Combating Antisemitism Month as Jewish Democrats press El-Sayed","headline":"Michigan House named October 2026 Combating Antisemitism Month as Jewish Democrats pressed El-Sayed","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"I'm a Zionist.","quote":"I'm a Zionist. I have been all my life,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"I'm a Zionist. I have been all my life,\" said Michigan lawmaker Noah Arbit. \"Now I am told by people I once considered friends and ideological allies that my Zionism, embracing my heritage, my faith, my history, makes me a traitor to human rights.\"","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/michigan-house-declares-october-2026-combating-antisemitism-month-as-jewish-democrats-press-el-sayed","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e1b9854e8a19","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:05:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump says doesn't want to work with China on AI safety","headline":"Trump said he did not want to work with Chinese President Xi Jinping on AI oversight in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"US President Donald Trump discussed AI development with dozens of tech bosses at the White House.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"US President Donald Trump discussed AI development with dozens of tech bosses at the White House. Ahead of his \"superintelligence\" luncheon, Trump launched a new AI-powered website for government services vowing not to stifle the technology's growth. He also said he didn't want to work with Chinese President Xi Jinping on AI oversight. Plus, dozens of dogs were rescued from a breeding farm in South Korea as the country prepares for a complete phaseout of the dog meat industry.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/tv-shows/business/20260929-trump-says-doesn-t-want-to-work-with-china-on-ai-safety","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6119087-trump-launches-ai-america-gov/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f43b2f2a02c8","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:01:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"US Air Force members given over 6 years in prison for cyber theft of more than $2 million","headline":"US Air Force members received more than six years in prison for stealing over 2 million dollars in a cyber theft","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"According to court documents, both men pleaded guilty to wire fraud, identity theft and access device fraud charges in June.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"According to court documents, both men pleaded guilty to wire fraud, identity theft and access device fraud charges in June.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/us-air-force-members-given-6-year-sentence-cyber","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ebcb6d00f6ce","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MARYLAND","what":"NASA Awards Orbital Safety Analysis Support Services Contract","headline":"NASA gave Omitron a 23.5-million-dollar contract for orbital safety analysis in Maryland","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA has awarded a contract to Omitron Inc.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA has awarded a contract to Omitron Inc. for the acquisition of orbital safety analysis services, which provide for critical protection of NASA spaceflight assets and astronaut lives. This indefinite-delivery contract is valued at approximately $23.5 million over a five-year period of performance and entails conjunction assessment screening services for all NASA uncrewed spacecraft, support","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-awards-orbital-safety-analysis-support-services-contract/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a1e20a589134","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T21:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"American Filmmaker Sam Pollard to Head Up London Film Festival Official Competition Jury","headline":"Sam Pollard will lead the London Film Festival official competition jury","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"British-Egyptian star Amir El-Masry has been named president of the first feature competition, and 'Santosh' director Sandhya Suri will preside over the documentary selection.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"British-Egyptian star Amir El-Masry has been named president of the first feature competition, and 'Santosh' director Sandhya Suri will preside over the documentary selection.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hollywood Reporter","url":"https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-news/sam-pollard-president-bfi-london-film-festival-juries-jury-1236716883/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"37bc8e27c881","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:56:39.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Republicans trail Democrats by 12 points in battle for House: Poll","headline":"Republicans trail Democrats by 12 points in the battle for the House in a Quinnipiac University poll","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Republicans are behind Democrats by 12 points in the midterms battle for the House, according to a new survey.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Republicans are behind Democrats by 12 points in the midterms battle for the House, according to a new survey. In the Quinnipiac University poll, 51 percent of registered voter respondents said if it was Election Day that day, they wanted Democrats to lock down the majority in the House, while 39 percent said they wanted…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/house/6118942-democrats-lead-house-midterms/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b571e5166f71","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:55:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ANTALYA","what":"NASA Features Exploration, Science at International Space Conference","headline":"NASA took part in the 77th International Astronautical Congress in Antalya, Turkey, from Oct. 5 to 9","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA will participate in the 77th International Astronautical Congress (IAC) in Antalya, Türkiye, from Monday, Oct.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA will participate in the 77th International Astronautical Congress (IAC) in Antalya, Türkiye, from Monday, Oct. 5, to Friday, Oct. 9, highlighting America’s leadership in human exploration to the Moon and Mars, advancing responsible exploration under the Artemis Accords, world-changing science, and support for the commercial space sector. The IAC, organized by the International Astronautical","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-features-exploration-science-at-international-space-conference/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d33fd93a29b4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:39:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"US sanctions 10 individuals, entities tied to Iranian military procurement networks","headline":"US Treasury sanctioned 10 people and firms in Iran and five other countries for buying weapons parts for Iran's defense ministry","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“Treasury will not tolerate any support to the regime and will continue to identify, expose and isolate Iran’s enablers,” Scott Bessent, U.S.","quote":"Treasury will not tolerate any support to the regime and will continue to identify, expose and isolate Iran’s enablers,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“Treasury will not tolerate any support to the regime and will continue to identify, expose and isolate Iran’s enablers,” Scott Bessent, U.S. treasury secretary, stated.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$44","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/us-sanctions-10-individuals-entities-tied-to-iranian-military-procurement-networks","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0ff682cd6d7c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:34:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"France intends to borrow record €340 billion as Covid-era debt comes due","headline":"France will borrow a record 340 billion euros next year as Covid debt falls due, its debt office said Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The French ​government will sell a record amount of bonds to investors next year as it faces a surge in Covid-era debt due for redemption and needing to be refinanced, the public debt management ​office ‌said on Tuesd…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The French ​government will sell a record amount of bonds to investors next year as it faces a surge in Covid-era debt due for redemption and needing to be refinanced, the public debt management ​office ‌said on Tuesday amid mounting concern about France's surging public deficit and borrowing rates.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/business/20260929-france-intends-to-borrow-record-340-billion-euros-covid-era-debt-comes-due","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cb23f3b9650f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:30:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NIGERIA","what":"Nigeria Advances Police Reform as First Constitutional Amendment to Reach States","headline":"Nigeria sent a constitutional amendment on state police to all 36 state assemblies for consideration","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Nigeria has taken an important step toward decentralizing its policing system after the National Assembly transmitted a constitutional amendment establishing state police services to all 36 state Houses of Assembly fo…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Nigeria has taken an important step toward decentralizing its policing system after the National Assembly transmitted a constitutional amendment establishing state police services to all 36 state Houses of Assembly for consideration. The measure, formally titled the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (Sixth Alteration) Bill, 2026, would establish state police forces alongside… The post Nigeria Advances Police Reform as First Constitutional Amendment to Reach States first appeared on International Christian Concern .","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"International Christian Concern","url":"https://persecution.org/2026/09/29/nigeria-advances-police-reform-as-first-constitutional-amendment-to-reach-states/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6332f0ebd785","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:15:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"Florida man whose Nazi flag was confiscated at Kia Center event sues city of Orlando","headline":"Florida man sues Orlando after staff took his Nazi flag at a kickboxing match","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"\"The First Amendment protects nearly all speech,\" Anthony Sabatini, an attorney for Jay Brown, who waved the flag at a heavyweight kickboxing match between Israeli-American Jewish fighter Ben Azoulay and Paul Nicholas…","quote":"The First Amendment protects nearly all speech,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"\"The First Amendment protects nearly all speech,\" Anthony Sabatini, an attorney for Jay Brown, who waved the flag at a heavyweight kickboxing match between Israeli-American Jewish fighter Ben Azoulay and Paul Nicholas Miller, told JNS.","summary":"Jay Brown waved a Nazi flag at an Aug 29 kickboxing match in Orlando. Staff at the city-owned Kia Center took the flag from him and said it was hateful. Brown filed a lawsuit Monday in federal court. He says the city let other political flags in but blocked his.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$45","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/florida-man-whose-nazi-flag-was-confiscated-at-kia-center-event-sues-city-of-orlando","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ae0e272218ad","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:14:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BUCHAREST","what":"Voormalig pro-Russische presidentskandidaat Roemenië opgepakt in fraudezaak","headline":"Former pro-Russian Romanian presidential candidate arrested in fraud case","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"De voormalige pro-Russische presidentskandidaat van Roemenië, Calin Georgescu, is vandaag aangehouden in zijn woning nabij Boekarest.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"De voormalige pro-Russische presidentskandidaat van Roemenië, Calin Georgescu, is vandaag aangehouden in zijn woning nabij Boekarest. Hij wordt verdacht van fraude en het oprichten van een criminele organisatie. Georgescu mocht de uitspraak in die rechtszaak eerder thuis afwachten onder gerechtelijk toezicht. Het Openbaar Ministerie ging in beroep tegen dat besluit. Vandaag stelde de rechtbank justitie in het gelijk. Georgescu blijft in elk geval dertig dagen vastzitten.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Former pro-Russian Romanian presidential candidate Calin Georgescu was arrested today at his home near Bucharest. He is suspected of fraud and establishing a criminal organization. Georgescu had been allowed to await the verdict in that case at home under judicial supervision. The Public Prosecutor's Office appealed that decision. Today the court ruled in favor of the prosecution. Georgescu will","context_en":"Former pro-Russian Romanian presidential candidate Calin Georgescu was arrested today at his home near Bucharest. He is suspected of fraud and establishing a criminal organization. Georgescu had been allowed to await the verdict in that case at home under judicial supervision. The Public Prosecutor's Office appealed that decision. Today the court ruled in favor of the prosecution. Georgescu will","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633064","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"253d8bfca496","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:08:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"NASA Adds Blue Origin New Glenn 9×4 to Launch Services Contract","headline":"NASA added Blue Origin New Glenn 9x4 launch service to its NLS II contract in Florida","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In accordance with a contract on-ramp clause, NASA has added Blue Origin’s New Glenn 9×4 launch service to the NASA Launch Services (NLS) II contract.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In accordance with a contract on-ramp clause, NASA has added Blue Origin’s New Glenn 9×4 launch service to the NASA Launch Services (NLS) II contract. The New Glenn 9×4 launch service will be available to NASA’s Launch Services Program Office to use for future missions. The NLS II contracts are multiple-award, indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contracts with an","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-adds-blue-origin-new-glenn-9x4-to-launch-services-contract/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9b2d4b81b987","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:05:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"75th Field Artillery Brigade, Singapore Complete Monthlong Exercise","headline":"US and Singapore troops finished a monthlong Exercise Daring Warrior 2026 with a joint live-fire drill in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Soldiers assigned to the 75th Field Artillery Brigade and the Singapore Armed Forces successfully concluded Exercise Daring Warrior 2026, finishing the bilateral training event with a decisive joint live-fire operation.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Soldiers assigned to the 75th Field Artillery Brigade and the Singapore Armed Forces successfully concluded Exercise Daring Warrior 2026, finishing the bilateral training event with a decisive joint live-fire operation.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4614125/75th-field-artillery-brigade-singapore-complete-monthlong-exercise/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7170e91bd04c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:04:23.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Dem, GOP senators demand answers from Meta on Jew-hating bot networks","headline":"Democrats and Republicans in the Senate asked Meta for answers on antisemitic bot networks in Washington","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"“We cannot continue to play catch up as foreign agents and extremists abuse American social media platforms to spread hate and sow discord on American soil and across the globe,” Sens.","quote":"We cannot continue to play catch up as foreign agents and extremists abuse American social media platforms to spread hate and sow discord on American soil and across the globe,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"“We cannot continue to play catch up as foreign agents and extremists abuse American social media platforms to spread hate and sow discord on American soil and across the globe,” Sens. James Lankford and Jacky Rosen told Mark Zuckerberg.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/dem-gop-senators-demand-answers-from-meta-on-jew-hating-bot-networks","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7ae65bb2f4fe","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:03:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZUIDWOLDE","what":"Twee vrachtwagenchauffeurs overleden bij ongeluk N48, weg tot de ochtend dicht","headline":"Two truck drivers died in N48 accident, road closed until morning","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bij een ongeval met meerdere voertuigen op de N48 ter hoogte van Zuidwolde zijn vanmiddag twee vrachtwagenchauffeurs overleden.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bij een ongeval met meerdere voertuigen op de N48 ter hoogte van Zuidwolde zijn vanmiddag twee vrachtwagenchauffeurs overleden. De weg zal tot morgenochtend afgesloten zijn. RTV Drenthe schrijft dat het ernstige ongeluk rond 15.15 uur plaatsvond. Drie vrachtwagens en drie personenauto's waren bij het ongeval betrokken. Door de ravage was de weg geblokkeerd: Hulpdiensten rukten massaal uit. Zo waren er meerdere brandweerauto's en ambulances ter plaatse en werd er een traumahelikopter opgeroepen. Huisvuil De weg lag na het ongeluk bezaaid met huisvuil dat een van de vrachtwagens vervoerde.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Two truck drivers died this afternoon in a multi-vehicle accident on the N48 near Zuidwolde. The road will remain closed until tomorrow morning. RTV Drenthe reports the serious crash happened around 3:15 p.m. Three trucks and three cars were involved.","context_en":"Two truck drivers died this afternoon in a multi-vehicle accident on the N48 near Zuidwolde. The road will remain closed until tomorrow morning. RTV Drenthe reports the serious crash happened around 3:15 p.m. Three trucks and three cars were involved.","lang":"nl","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633060","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Die Presse","url":"https://www.diepresse.com/41310945/tirol-pkw-lenker-stirbt-bei-sturz-in-schlucht","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6d42cd67d800","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T20:03:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"One in eight cancers worldwide linked to infections, WHO agency says","headline":"A WHO agency study linked one in eight new cancer cases worldwide to infections in 2024","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A new study from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) shows that an estimated 2.3 million new cancer cases worldwide in 2024 – about 12% of all new cancer cases – were caused by infections and could…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A new study from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) shows that an estimated 2.3 million new cancer cases worldwide in 2024 – about 12% of all new cancer cases – were caused by infections and could be prevented with treatment or vaccines. FRANCE 24's Jennie Shin speaks with the lead author of the study, Dr Gary Clifford, Scientist at the IARC.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/one-in-eight-cancers-worldwide-linked-to-infections-who-agency-says","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"365ffed74386","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:59:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SAUDI ARABIA","what":"Tankers Are Loading Oil Again From a Vital Saudi Pipeline","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Saudi authorities had taken the pipeline offline this month after it was damaged in a drone attack by an Iranian-backed Iraqi militia.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Saudi authorities had taken the pipeline offline this month after it was damaged in a drone attack by an Iranian-backed Iraqi militia.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Saudi Arabia opened an oil pipeline to the Red Sea in 2019 to move crude around the Strait of Hormuz and reduce dependence on tanker traffic through waters Iran can reach from its coast. The line runs from Abqaiq to Yanbu and carries about two million barrels a day when it operates at full rate.\n\nThis month Iranian-backed Iraqi militia forces hit the pipeline with a drone. Saudi crews shut the line for repairs and rerouted tankers.\n\nOn September 29 loading resumed at the Yanbu terminal. The first tankers took on crude again after the damage was fixed and the line was pressure-tested.\n\nThe pipeline now moves oil once more while US and Gulf states keep work on alternate routes that would further limit the effect of any future closure of the strait.","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/business/oil-saudi-east-west-pipeline.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"e5955315caab","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:51:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"GAO reasserts pocket rescissions’ illegality after Trump uses tactic to cancel nearly $1B","headline":"GAO told Congress Tuesday that President Trump unlawfully used a pocket rescission to cancel 810 million dollars in federal funding","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) reasserted Tuesday that President Trump’s use of a “pocket rescission” to cancel $810 million in federal funding was unlawful. The letter by the government watchdog’s lead attorney, Edda Emmanuelli Perez, outlined under the Impoundment Control Act (ICA) of 1974, “the rescission proposals contained in the President’s September 25, 2026,…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/business/budget/6118661-gao-trump-rescission-unlawful/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"be82f29ed2b3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:50:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Zohran Mamdani: New Yorks B&#252;rgermeister Mamdani stellt Plan gegen Antisemitismus vor","headline":"New York Mayor Zohran Mamdani unveiled a plan to fight antisemitism after a sharp rise in such crimes","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"In New York nahmen antisemitische Straftaten zuletzt stark zu.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"In New York nahmen antisemitische Straftaten zuletzt stark zu. Der B&#252;rgermeister will mehr Geld f&#252;r die Sicherheit von Synagogen und Informationskampagnen bereitstellen.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ZEIT ONLINE","url":"https://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2026-09/zohran-mamdani-antisemitismus-new-york-schutz-juden","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6ce6b1bb68e6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:49:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"Canada not going to apologize to Trump amid trade war, LeBlanc says","headline":"Canada will not apologize to the US in the coming weeks, Trade Minister Dominic LeBlanc said","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Canada-U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Canada-U.S. Trade Minister Dominic LeBlanc dismissed the idea that Canada would apologize to the U.S. in the coming weeks, as President Donald Trump stated.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12077478/donald-trump-tariffs-leblanc-apology/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0a5729c739bb","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:48:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AUSTRALIA","what":"OpenAI apologizes for agents breaching Australian government websites without authorization","headline":"OpenAI apologized for its agents breaching Australian government websites without authorization in Australia","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The artificial intelligence giant acknowledged it botched its response to the incidents and should have done more to promptly notify and work with the Australian government in the days after it discovered the breaches.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The artificial intelligence giant acknowledged it botched its response to the incidents and should have done more to promptly notify and work with the Australian government in the days after it discovered the breaches.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/openai-apologizes-australia-medicare-breach","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5434c2a15c4b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:36:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TALLINN","what":"Estonia blames Russia for arson at defence company supplying Ukraine","headline":"Nato member Estonia blamed Russia for arson at a defence company that supplies Ukraine in Tallinn","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Russia has been accused of launching sabotage attacks across a number of European Nato countries which have been helping Ukraine.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Russia has been accused of launching sabotage attacks across a number of European Nato countries which have been helping Ukraine.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6m27l4er4jxo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3067270/estonia-attributes-attack-on-defence-firm-to-russia","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5005b35be0ab","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:36:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Live updates: Jack Smith faces Senate GOP scrutiny; Supreme Court lets Trump resume third-country deportations","headline":"Jack Smith faced Senate Republican scrutiny in Washington on September 29 2026 as the Supreme Court allowed Trump to resume third-country deportations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Hill · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$undefined","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/6116612-live-updates-trump-ai-jack-smith-senate-healthcare-affordability/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"053f60acfd15","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:35:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UGANDA","what":"The journalist who became king in Uganda","headline":"Edward Rukidi Nyabongo I became king of Tooro at a ceremony attended by Uganda president Museveni","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Edward Rukidi Nyabongo I has been crowned king of Tooro in a ceremony attended by Uganda's President Museveni.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Edward Rukidi Nyabongo I has been crowned king of Tooro in a ceremony attended by Uganda's President Museveni.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/cry4z9jw3wvlo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a29717ac7777","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:32:46.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SYDNEY","what":"Mother pays tribute to 'deeply loved' son as three charged with murder","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A teenage boy and two men have been charged over the mistaken-identity shooting of university student Marco Tapia in Sydney's south-west earlier this month.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A teenage boy and two men have been charged over the mistaken-identity shooting of university student Marco Tapia in Sydney's south-west earlier this month.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/police-charge-teenager-men-over-marco-tapia-shooting/107209874","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8f19b487cfb0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:30:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Media trust increase driven by Republicans: Gallup","headline":"Republicans drove a 5 percent rise in US media trust after a record low in 2025, Gallup said Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Republicans drove an increase in Americans’ trust in the media, which jumped by 5 percent this year after hitting an all-time low in 2025, according to survey results published Tuesday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Republicans drove an increase in Americans’ trust in the media, which jumped by 5 percent this year after hitting an all-time low in 2025, according to survey results published Tuesday. In the new Gallup survey, 33 percent of respondents said they trusted mass media — including newspapers, television and radio — a “great deal” or…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/media/6118504-gallup-poll-republican-media-trust-increases/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ba51b211fd28","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:23:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Prime Minister Andy Burnham sets out plans for a new National Care Service","headline":"Prime Minister Andy Burnham announced plans for a new National Care Service today","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Prime Minister announced a new settlement for older people today: a state pension that rises every year, no personal care charges and a high-quality National Care Service to give peace of mind in later life.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Prime Minister announced a new settlement for older people today: a state pension that rises every year, no personal care charges and a high-quality National Care Service to give peace of mind in later life.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Prime Minister’s Office","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/prime-minister-andy-burnham-sets-out-plans-for-a-new-national-care-service","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c9ffaa4ff4ec","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:21:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH AFRICA","what":"Four-point plan to aid the GBVF fight","headline":"President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a four-point plan on Tuesday to speed up unresolved murder, attempted murder, rape and serious assault cases in South Africa","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Four-point plan to aid the GBVF fight In a bid to ensure that cases involving violence against women and children are not stalled, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a four-point recovery plan to ensure that cases ar…","quote":"Within 90 days of completing the audit, the most urgent hazards must have been addressed or included in a funded implementation plan with clear completion dates.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Four-point plan to aid the GBVF fight In a bid to ensure that cases involving violence against women and children are not stalled, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a four-point recovery plan to ensure that cases are processed and that perpetrators are brought to book. Addressing the nation on Tuesday evening, the President announced that he has directed the Acting Minister of Police, Professor Firoz Cachalia and Justice and Constitutional Development Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi to undertake a national case-recovery operation focused on unresolved murders, attempted murders, rapes and serious","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/four-point-plan-aid-gbvf-fight","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"828d4d5a23f1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:14:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Police in Bucks County investigating swastika vandalism at golf course near Jewish school","headline":"Police in Bucks County are investigating swastikas carved into the turf at Yardley Country Club near a Jewish school last week","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Police said the swastikas were carved into the turf at the Yardley Country Club overnight Friday into Saturday last week.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Police said the swastikas were carved into the turf at the Yardley Country Club overnight Friday into Saturday last week.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Philadelphia Inquirer","url":"https://www.inquirer.com/crime/bucks-county-yardley-golf-course-swastikas-abrams-hebrew-academy-20260929.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"97abc56ab2cb","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:07:36.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"First Lady Melania Trump Announces 2026 Fall Garden Tours","headline":"First Lady Melania Trump announced 2026 fall garden tours at the White House","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The White House will welcome visitors this fall for the 2026 Fall Garden Tours, offering an opportunity for visitors to experience the historic gardens and grounds of the People’s House.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The White House will welcome visitors this fall for the 2026 Fall Garden Tours, offering an opportunity for visitors to experience the historic gardens and grounds of the People’s House. The grounds will be open Saturday, October 17 from 10:00 AM – 4:30 PM, and Sunday, October 18 from 10:00 AM – 2:30 PM. Throughout","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"White House","url":"https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2026/09/first-lady-melania-trump-announces-2026-fall-garden-tours/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5a2a2c3770ef","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:05:41.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED KINGDOM","what":"Mystery over UK airbase scare as police find 'quantity of petrol' but no explosives","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Britain's counter-terrorism police said ​on Tuesday that no improvised explosive devices had been found as part of an ​investigation ‌into a suspected plot targeting ⁠a British airbase used by US forces to ‌strike Ira…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Britain's counter-terrorism police said ​on Tuesday that no improvised explosive devices had been found as part of an ​investigation ‌into a suspected plot targeting ⁠a British airbase used by US forces to ‌strike Iran, deepening uncertainty over the incident a day after five UK-based suspects were released on bail.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":4,"top":true,"topSim":0.587},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20260929-mystery-over-uk-airbase-scare-as-police-find-quantity-of-petrol-but-no-explosives","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7ff0e3cd23f2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T19:00:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"OpenAI hit with landmark lawsuit following Hugging Face hack","headline":"A public interest law group sued OpenAI on Tuesday over its breach of Hugging Face and sought court orders to stop future hacks","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A public interest law group hit OpenAI with a lawsuit Tuesday over its breach of tech company Hugging Face , seeking court-ordered restrictions to prevent future hacks.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A public interest law group hit OpenAI with a lawsuit Tuesday over its breach of tech company Hugging Face , seeking court-ordered restrictions to prevent future hacks.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Axios","url":"https://www.axios.com/2026/09/29/openai-sued-hugging-face-breach","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f390532add84","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:57:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLORIDA","what":"NASA Sets Crew-13 Launch, Docking Coverage","headline":"NASA set live coverage for the SpaceX Crew-13 launch and docking on Oct 1","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NASA will provide live coverage of prelaunch, launch, and docking activities for the agency’s SpaceX Crew‑13 mission to the International Space Station.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NASA will provide live coverage of prelaunch, launch, and docking activities for the agency’s SpaceX Crew‑13 mission to the International Space Station. Live coverage will stream through a variety of platforms. Learn where to watch online: https://www.nasa.gov/live Crew‑13 is scheduled to launch at 11:10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, Oct. 1, from Space Launch Complex 40 at","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$46","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-sets-crew-13-launch-docking-coverage/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f3e049f64e44","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:55:19.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Cruz blocks Senate Democrats’ bid to pass AI safety bill","headline":"Ted Cruz blocked a Senate Democratic push to pass an AI safety bill in Washington on September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Politico · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"$undefined","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Politico","url":"https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2026/09/29/congress/cruz-blocks-senate-democrats-bid-to-pass-ai-safety-bill-01097480","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"eafa031d7836","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:47:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PRAGUE","what":"Dichiarazioni con il Primo Ministro della Repubblica Ceca Babiš","headline":"Statements with Czech Prime Minister Babiš","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Buonasera a tutti, grazie di essere qui.","quote":"Possiamo dire, senza timore di smentita, che in questi anni Italia e Repubblica Ceca sono state più vicine che mai, che le nostre relazioni sono nella condizione ora di poter esprimere il loro massimo potenziale di sviluppo","quote_en":"We can say, without fear of contradiction, that in these years Italy and the Czech Republic have been closer than ever, that our relations are now in a position to express their maximum potential for development","context":"$47","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said she was pleased to be in Prague and thanked Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for the invitation and talks. The two leaders exchanged the 2026-2030 Action Plan, described as a roadmap to boost mutual investment, create opportunities for businesses and citizens, and strengthen ties between the peoples. They also decided to launch the Italy-Czech Republic","context_en":"Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said she was pleased to be in Prague and thanked Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for the invitation and talks. The two leaders exchanged the 2026-2030 Action Plan, described as a roadmap to boost mutual investment, create opportunities for businesses and citizens, and strengthen ties between the peoples. They also decided to launch the Italy-Czech Republic","lang":"it","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/visita-del-presidente-meloni-nella-repubblica-ceca-dichiarazioni-con-il-primo-ministro-babi","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fb611769e5aa","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:45:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HAITI","what":"Adopting Resolution 2829 (2026), Security Council Renews Haiti Gang Suppression Force for Six Months","headline":"Security Council renewed Haiti gang suppression force mandate for six months","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Security Council today renewed the mandate of the Gang Suppression Force in Haiti for six months, as speakers called for its rapid deployment to reclaim territory from armed gangs, restore State authority and crea…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Security Council today renewed the mandate of the Gang Suppression Force in Haiti for six months, as speakers called for its rapid deployment to reclaim territory from armed gangs, restore State authority and create conditions for elections.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UN Press","url":"https://press.un.org/en/2026/sc16466.doc.htm","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3653e10847b3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:44:35.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAUTENG","what":"Cases of murdered Ekurhuleni women will not go cold","headline":"President Cyril Ramaphosa assured families in South Africa that the cases of murdered Ekurhuleni women will not go cold","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Cases of murdered Ekurhuleni women will not go cold President Cyril Ramaphosa has assured the families of the women who have been brutally killed and whose bodies were discovered in Ekurhuleni that their cases will no…","quote":"The state is bringing together its available capabilities to establish what happened and to identify those responsible,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Cases of murdered Ekurhuleni women will not go cold President Cyril Ramaphosa has assured the families of the women who have been brutally killed and whose bodies were discovered in Ekurhuleni that their cases will not be allowed to go cold. “The state is bringing together its available capabilities to establish what happened and to identify those responsible,” President Ramaphosa said on Tuesday night. The country has been rocked by the discovery of the bodies of several women in and around Ekurhuleni in Gauteng.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/cases-murdered-ekurhuleni-women-will-not-go-cold","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"808152ea2580","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:44:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LOS ANGELES","what":"Historic Los Angeles Cross and Nativity Will Not Be Torn Down, Appeals Court Rules","headline":"A federal appeals court ruled that the century-old cross and Nativity scene in Los Angeles will stay up","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Christmas nativity and a century-old cross at the center of a historic display in Los Angeles will not be torn down, thanks to a ruling by a federal appeals court.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Christmas nativity and a century-old cross at the center of a historic display in Los Angeles will not be torn down, thanks to a ruling by a federal appeals court.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBN News","url":"http://www1.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2026/september/historic-los-angeles-cross-and-nativity-will-not-be-torn-down-appeals-court-rules","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"39146ff3de83","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:43:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Robotics Competition Winners Advance Military Exploration of Humanoid Capabilities","headline":"The Army picked five companies as winners of its xTechHumanoid competition in Washington to test commercial humanoid robots for future operations","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Army named five companies as winners of its xTechHumanoid competition, capping an effort to assess how emerging commercial humanoid technologies could contribute to future military operations.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Army named five companies as winners of its xTechHumanoid competition, capping an effort to assess how emerging commercial humanoid technologies could contribute to future military operations.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"U.S. Dept. of Defense","url":"https://www.war.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/4613847/robotics-competition-winners-advance-military-exploration-of-humanoid-capabilit/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"La Patilla","url":"https://lapatilla.com/2026/10/01/ejercito-de-eeuu-apuesta-por-alex-un-robot-humanoide-con-proteccion-balistica-para-misiones-peligrosas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7973c1c77263","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:33:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Dichiarazione del Presidente del Consiglio, Giorgia Meloni","headline":"Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's statement","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Da oggi un edificio del Parlamento europeo a Bruxelles porta il nome di David Sassoli.","quote":"Da oggi un edificio del Parlamento europeo a Bruxelles porta il nome di David Sassoli. È il giusto riconoscimento alla memoria di un italiano che ha servito con onore le Istituzioni europee e ha creduto profondamente nella democrazia.","quote_en":"From today a building of the European Parliament in Brussels bears the name of David Sassoli. It is the right recognition of the memory of an Italian who served the European institutions with honor and deeply believed in democracy.","context":"Da oggi un edificio del Parlamento europeo a Bruxelles porta il nome di David Sassoli. È il giusto riconoscimento alla memoria di un italiano che ha servito con onore le Istituzioni europee e ha creduto profondamente nella democrazia. Sassoli aveva idee e posizioni politiche diverse dalle mie, ma questo non mi ha mai impedito di apprezzarne la serietà, la capacità e la lealtà. Un uomo di valore e un politico di alto livello, che ricorderemo a lungo. Lingua Italiano Fonte: Il Presidente del Consiglio Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"From today a building of the European Parliament in Brussels bears the name of David Sassoli. It is the right recognition of the memory of an Italian who served the European institutions with honor and deeply believed in democracy.","context_en":"From today a building of the European Parliament in Brussels bears the name of David Sassoli. It is the right recognition of the memory of an Italian who served the European institutions with honor and deeply believed in democracy.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/dichiarazione-del-presidente-del-consiglio-giorgia-meloni/32689","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f0d6a4b9f7d5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:30:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UKRAINE","what":"Zelenskyy says Ukraine has approved long-range operations for October","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says the military has outlined near-term long-range priorities and that strikes on Russia’s oil industry are continuing to have an impact.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says the military has outlined near-term long-range priorities and that strikes on Russia’s oil industry are continuing to have an impact.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$48","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/29/8055683/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0c7646a4b522","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:09:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SOUTH AFRICA","what":"Violence against women “inhuman”, says President Ramaphosa","headline":"President Ramaphosa spoke on the killings of women in South Africa","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Violence against women “inhuman”, says President Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa has described the violence meted out against the country’s women as inhuman while adding that a specialised multidisciplinary invest…","quote":"We must confront an uncomfortable truth. What we have done has not been enough. We need to do much more. It has not been enough to prevent women from being killed.","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Violence against women “inhuman”, says President Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa has described the violence meted out against the country’s women as inhuman while adding that a specialised multidisciplinary investigation into the killing of women has been elevated to the national level. “The violence being perpetrated against women in this country is inhuman. Behind each of these terrible deaths was a human being, a daughter, a mother, a sister, a friend whose life had value, whose future mattered and whose absence has left a family and a community grieving,” President Ramaphosa said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":{"subject":"trial","sim":0.4066},"corrected":"$undefined","history":"$49","sources":[{"outlet":"SAnews","url":"https://www.sanews.gov.za/south-africa/violence-against-women-inhuman-says-president-ramaphosa","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Presidency (South Africa)","url":"https://thepresidency.gov.za/address-nation-president-cyril-ramaphosa-killings-women-ekurhuleni-and-national-response-gender","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Presidency (South Africa)","url":"https://thepresidency.gov.za/president-ramaphosa-address-nation-19","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"ee71746bc2b7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:06:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ITALY","what":"Giornata Mondiale del Cuore – World Heart Day 2026, Palazzo Chigi si illumina di rosso","headline":"World Heart Day 2026: Palazzo Chigi to be lit red","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri aderisce alla “Giornata mondiale del Cuore - World Heart Day 2026”.","quote":"Giornata mondiale del Cuore - World Heart Day 2026","quote_en":"World Heart Day 2026","context":"La Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri aderisce alla “Giornata mondiale del Cuore - World Heart Day 2026”. Per la ricorrenza, martedì 29 settembre, la facciata principale di Palazzo Chigi sarà illuminata di rosso, colore simbolo dell’iniziativa, dall’imbrunire alle ore 23.59. Lingua Italiano Fonte: Presidenza del Consiglio dei Ministri Tipologia Contenuto: Notizie Governo: Meloni Immagine nella notizia: Posizione della fotografia nell'articolo: Centrata","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Presidency of the Council of Ministers is joining World Heart Day 2026. For the occasion, on Tuesday 29 September, the main facade of Palazzo Chigi will be illuminated in red, the symbol of the initiative, from dusk until 11:59 p.m.","context_en":"The Presidency of the Council of Ministers is joining World Heart Day 2026. For the occasion, on Tuesday 29 September, the main facade of Palazzo Chigi will be illuminated in red, the symbol of the initiative, from dusk until 11:59 p.m.","lang":"it","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Governo Italiano","url":"https://www.governo.it/it/articolo/giornata-mondiale-del-cuore-world-heart-day-2026-palazzo-chigi-si-illumina-di-rosso/32687","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d9986d5b8cbd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:03:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW YORK","what":"Man found dead on tracks at Brooklyn subway station after his bag reportedly gets stuck in closing doors","headline":"A shopping bag dragged Yaw Boahene, 57, onto the tracks of a northbound A train at a Brooklyn subway station where he died","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Yaw Boahene's shopping bag reportedly got caught in closing subway doors at a Brooklyn station, dragging the 57-year-old onto the tracks of a northbound A train.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Yaw Boahene's shopping bag reportedly got caught in closing subway doors at a Brooklyn station, dragging the 57-year-old onto the tracks of a northbound A train.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/man-found-dead-tracks-brooklyn-subway-station-bag-stuck-closing-doors","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"64f48c19a445","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T18:02:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"State Department postpones memorial for US Oct. 7 victims, no new date set","headline":"State Department delayed a memorial for US victims of the Oct. 7 attacks with no new date set","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"JNS sought comment from Foggy Bottom after breaking the news about the event, which was initially planned for Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"JNS sought comment from Foggy Bottom after breaking the news about the event, which was initially planned for Sept. 30.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/state-department-postpones-memorial-for-us-oct-7-victims-no-new-date-set","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"11f57a6bd701","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:57:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"German chancellor names air defence as Ukraine's biggest weakness: We're looking for solutions","headline":"German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said in Germany that air defence is Ukraine's biggest weakness and Berlin is seeking solutions with partners","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"German Chancellor Friedrich Merz says Berlin is working with international partners to secure more air defence equipment for Ukraine ahead of a difficult winter.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"German Chancellor Friedrich Merz says Berlin is working with international partners to secure more air defence equipment for Ukraine ahead of a difficult winter.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Ukrainska Pravda","url":"https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/news/2026/09/29/8055679/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"22509705dfed","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:54:01.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CANADA","what":"CSIS can break the law. They need to document it better, watchdog warns","headline":"NSIRA said CSIS failed to document its legal justifications for breaking the law in Canada","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The National Security and Intelligence Review Agency (NSIRA) said CSIS did not properly document justifications for illegal activities as required.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The National Security and Intelligence Review Agency (NSIRA) said CSIS did not properly document justifications for illegal activities as required.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12077321/csis-nsira-watchdog-report-2026/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8dfdcb6e5ef6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:53:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO","what":"Conseil de sécurité : la RDC dénonce une « gestion criminelle » des zones occupées par la RDF et l’AFC-M23","headline":"UN Security Council: DRC denounces 'criminal management' of areas occupied by RDF and AFC-M23","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La République démocratique du Congo (RDC) se dit préoccupée par la gestion des territoires occupés dans l’Est.","quote":"gestion administrative, territoriale et démographique criminelle","quote_en":"criminal administrative, territorial and demographic management","context":"La République démocratique du Congo (RDC) se dit préoccupée par la gestion des territoires occupés dans l’Est. Lors de la réunion du Conseil de sécurité des Nations unies du mardi 29 septembre 2026, son représentant à l’ONU, Zénon Mukongo Ngay, a dénoncé une « gestion administrative, territoriale et démographique criminelle » des zones sous occupation de l’armée rwandaise (RDF) et de l’AFC-M23.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) says it is concerned about the management of occupied territories in the east. During the United Nations Security Council meeting on Tuesday 29 September 2026, its representative to the UN, Zénon Mukongo Ngay, denounced a 'criminal administrative, territorial and demographic management' of zones under occupation by the Rwandan army (RDF) and AFC-M23.","context_en":"The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) says it is concerned about the management of occupied territories in the east. During the United Nations Security Council meeting on Tuesday 29 September 2026, its representative to the UN, Zénon Mukongo Ngay, denounced a 'criminal administrative, territorial and demographic management' of zones under occupation by the Rwandan army (RDF) and AFC-M23.","lang":"fr","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/29/actualite/politique/conseil-de-securite-la-rdc-denonce-une-gestion-criminelle-des-zones","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c27429f94fd0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:42:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Sheriff's department aware of possible new ransom note in Nancy Guthrie kidnapping case","headline":"Pinal County sheriff's department and the FBI examined a possible new ransom note in the Nancy Guthrie kidnapping case in Arizona","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"PCSD and FBI investigators are examining a possible new ransom note in the kidnapping case involving Savannah Guthrie's mother, Nancy Guthrie, in Arizona.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"PCSD and FBI investigators are examining a possible new ransom note in the kidnapping case involving Savannah Guthrie's mother, Nancy Guthrie, in Arizona.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/sheriffs-department-aware-possible-new-ransom-note-nancy-guthrie-kidnapping-case","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bac95f7fe71a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:34:43.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRITISH COLUMBIA","what":"Carney says LNG Canada expansion offers ‘secure’ supply for Asia, Europe","headline":"Mark Carney said the LNG Canada expansion will give secure supplies of natural gas to Asia and Europe","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Carney's announcement comes after LNG Canada said earlier Tuesday that it will go ahead with the multibillion-dollar Phase 2 expansion of its liquefied natural gas export terminal.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Carney's announcement comes after LNG Canada said earlier Tuesday that it will go ahead with the multibillion-dollar Phase 2 expansion of its liquefied natural gas export terminal.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12077317/mark-carney-energy-announcement-vancouver/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7a862416999f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:28:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Office of Personnel Management uncovers $500M in fraud and waste in federal health benefits programs","headline":"Office of Personnel Management found 510 million dollars in fraud and waste in federal health benefits programs","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Trump administration's Office of Personnel Management uncovered $510 million in fraud and waste across federal employee health benefits programs.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Trump administration's Office of Personnel Management uncovered $510 million in fraud and waste across federal employee health benefits programs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/politics/office-personnel-management-uncovers-500m-fraud-waste-federal-health-benefits-programs","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"71906a5fd75f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:28:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GERMANY","what":"Germany news: Bremerhaven port to receive defense boost","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Bremerhaven's port and Bremen's airport will be upgraded for German, NATO defense needs in case of an attack on the alliance.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bremerhaven's port and Bremen's airport will be upgraded for German, NATO defense needs in case of an attack on the alliance. It comes as European countries upgrade militarily amid Russia's war in Ukraine. DW has more.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$4a","sources":[{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/germany-news-bremerhaven-port-to-receive-defense-boost/live-79468663?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3e0b9a43c520","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:26:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW JERSEY","what":"NJ man gets almost six years for threats to kill US officials, Supreme Court judges and making demands of Catholics, Jews","headline":"A New Jersey man got almost six years in prison for threatening to kill US officials and Supreme Court justices while making demands of Catholics and Jews","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Louis Geri told police that “several of your people are gonna die” if federal agents did not negotiate.","quote":"several of your people are gonna die","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Louis Geri told police that “several of your people are gonna die” if federal agents did not negotiate.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/u-s-news/nj-man-gets-almost-six-years-for-threats-to-kill-us-officials-supreme-court-judges-and-making-demands-of-catholics-jews","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3b2203eda607","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:14:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MOROCCO","what":"First female prime minister named in Morocco after winning elections","headline":"King of Morocco named Fatima Ezzahra El Mansouri prime minister after her election win","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Her appointment by the king makes her only the second woman to lead a government in the Arab world.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Her appointment by the king makes her only the second woman to lead a government in the Arab world.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/world/middleeast/morocco-first-woman-prime-minister.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c674kkjllw17o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/marokko-har-faaet-den-foerste-kvindelige-premierminister","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2026/09/29/morocco-appoints-its-first-female-prime-minister/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"0141aab6b29e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:07:34.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"Trump celebrates Senate passage of legislation to overhaul college sports","headline":"Trump celebrated the Senate's 77-22 vote for a bill to overhaul college sports in Washington on Monday night","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Senate passed the act with a vote of 77-22 on Monday night.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Senate passed the act with a vote of 77-22 on Monday night.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Politics/trump-celebrates-senate-passage-legislation-overhaul-college-sports/story?id=136851143","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"27be1ed88536","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T17:02:17.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DUBLIN","what":"Opening remarks by Commissioner Jørgensen at the press conference concluding the Informal Energy Council","headline":"Commissioner Jørgensen gave opening remarks at the Informal Energy Council press conference in Dublin, Ireland on 29 Sep 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Speech Dublin, 29 Sep 2026 Thank you, Minister, for hosting these important discussions here in Dublin.And thank you for your putting energy affordability and security at the top of the a...","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Speech Dublin, 29 Sep 2026 Thank you, Minister, for hosting these important discussions here in Dublin.And thank you for your putting energy affordability and security at the top of the a...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2016","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3b64328e908b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:53:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Americans feel worse about the economy than during the pandemic","headline":"US consumer confidence in the economy fell to its lowest level in more than 10 years","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A new survey shows consumer confidence in the economy has dropped to the lowest level in more than a decade.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A new survey shows consumer confidence in the economy has dropped to the lowest level in more than a decade.","summary":"A new survey shows Americans now feel worse about the economy than they did in the pandemic. The drop hit the lowest point since 2011. The survey comes from the Conference Board.","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"Consumer confidence surveys began tracking how Americans viewed the economy in 1978 through the Conference Board index that polls households on current conditions and short-term expectations. The measure held above 100 for most of the 2010s until the 2020 pandemic lockdowns pushed it below 90 for several months before a partial recovery.\n\nA report released on September 29 2026 showed the index falling to 86.2 the lowest reading since 2014. That drop came after steady declines through the summer as inflation on food and housing stayed above 3 percent while wage growth slowed for hourly workers.\n\nThe index now sits 20 points below its long-term average and turns on the next two months of payroll data and grocery-price reports that households will use to update their answers in the October survey.","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2026/09/29/americans-feel-worse-about-economy-than-during-pandemic/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"The Hill","url":"https://thehill.com/business/6118506-consumer-confidence-reaches-dozen-year-low/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8d39c2fe38a4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:52:51.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUBA","what":"Al menos seis de los 89 muertos en el servicio militar desde 2017 eran menores de edad","headline":"At least six of the 89 dead in military service since 2017 were minors","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"'El Toque' presenta una investigación a partir de testimonios de familiares y reportes independientes","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"'El Toque' presenta una investigación a partir de testimonios de familiares y reportes independientes","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"El Toque presents an investigation based on testimonies from relatives and independent reports.","context_en":"El Toque presents an investigation based on testimonies from relatives and independent reports.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"14ymedio","url":"https://www.14ymedio.com/cuba/seis-89-muertos-servicio_1_1131335.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0d599bac2d89","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:48:59.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MASSACHUSETTS","what":"No decision on retrial in Lindsay Clancy murder case","headline":"Judge William Sullivan in Massachusetts postponed a decision on a retrial for Lindsay Clancy","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Massachusetts Judge William Sullivan granted a request from prosecutors and Clancy’s attorneys to postpone the decision.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Massachusetts Judge William Sullivan granted a request from prosecutors and Clancy’s attorneys to postpone the decision.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":2},"followed_trial":{"story":"t-95cfaf2ac3","records":6,"outlets":9},"values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Washington Post","url":"https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2026/09/29/lindsay-clancy-is-back-court-tuesday-after-her-case-ended-mistrial/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/us/lindsay-clancy-hearing.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"El Universal","url":"https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/mundo/juez-fija-nueva-audiencia-en-el-caso-de-lindsay-clancy-juez-decidira-si-desestima-los-cargos-contra-la-mujer/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/lindsay-clancy-returns-court-first-time-mistrial-rcna600432","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"556f8ae27a69","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:45:32.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LIVERPOOL","what":"CPS to give all domestic abuse victims a dedicated liaison officer nationwide","headline":"The Crown Prosecution Service will give every domestic abuse victim in England and Wales a dedicated liaison officer","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Attorney General visits Liverpool as the Universal Service for all victims and the Enhanced Service for survivors of domestic abuse – including a dedicated victim liaison officer – is set to become the standard offer…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Attorney General visits Liverpool as the Universal Service for all victims and the Enhanced Service for survivors of domestic abuse – including a dedicated victim liaison officer – is set to become the standard offer in ever…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/cps-to-give-all-domestic-abuse-victims-a-dedicated-liaison-officer-nationwide","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/cps-to-give-every-domestic-abuse-victim-a-dedicated-liaison-officer-nationwide","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b4a360f001ec","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:33:31.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MISSISSIPPI","what":"Vape store clerk near Ole Miss campus warned buyer 'people were dying' from kratom pills, affidavit says","headline":"A vape store clerk in Oxford, Mississippi, warned a buyer that people were dying from kratom pills, an affidavit says","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A vape store clerk allegedly warned that \"people were dying\" from kratom sold at the Oxford, Mississippi, shop where an Ole Miss student bought products.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A vape store clerk allegedly warned that \"people were dying\" from kratom sold at the Oxford, Mississippi, shop where an Ole Miss student bought products.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Fox News","url":"https://www.foxnews.com/us/vape-store-clerk-ole-miss-campus-warned-buyer-people-dying-kratom-pills-affidavit","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"269612b931a3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:29:33.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Commissioner Roswall's keynote speech at the conference 'The Stress Test of the Nature Directives: Next Steps for Wildlife Management'","headline":"European Commissioner Roswall gave a keynote speech at a wildlife management conference in Brussels, Belgium on 29 September 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Dear Juan, Honourable Members, Representatives of FACE and the European Landowners' Organisation, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just experienced a scorchi...","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Dear Juan, Honourable Members, Representatives of FACE and the European Landowners' Organisation, Ladies and gentlemen, We have just experienced a scorchi...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2015","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"318dc8dbdbc1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T16:23:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"Spain announces ban on evictions after protests over 87-year-old woman's removal from flat","headline":"Tens of thousands marched through Madrid on Saturday to protest Spain's housing crisis after the eviction of an 87-year-old woman","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The ban is part of a number of proposals that must be approved in parliament within 30 days.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The ban is part of a number of proposals that must be approved in parliament within 30 days.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NPR","url":"https://www.npr.org/2026/09/28/nx-s1-5983303/encampment-protest-madrid-housing-crisis","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/world/spain/anger-grows-spain-elderly-woman-evicted-home-70-years-rcna599808","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cwm2qmjgy93do?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/spain-agrees-on-measures-to-fix-housing-crisis-ban-eviction/a-79467953?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f068f79bd4c9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T15:40:10.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AMSTERDAM","what":"Dutch police arrest suspected member of group that claimed FBI hack","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The suspect, 24, was arrested before the alleged cyber attack took place.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The suspect, 24, was arrested before the alleged cyber attack took place.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cw5ym18znr0ro?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"NOS","url":"https://nos.nl/l/2633068","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"db18d9d9b6b6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T15:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Queensland government department loses $800,000 in cyber attack","headline":"Queensland government department lost 800000 dollars in a cyber attack, a review found Friday, with no data compromised","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The review, released on Friday, said no government data or sensitive information was compromised during the incident.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The review, released on Friday, said no government data or sensitive information was compromised during the incident.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/qld-government-customer-services-department-cyber-attack/107207128","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"cf9e58e0e012","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T15:11:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"UNITED STATES","what":"NASA Opens Applications for Second Season of ORBIT Student Challenge","headline":"NASA opened applications for its second ORBIT student challenge for the 2026-2027 school year","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Following a successful inaugural year of ingenuity and career building, NASA ORBIT (Opportunities in Research, Business, Innovation, and Technology) has officially returned for a second season to bring university and…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Following a successful inaugural year of ingenuity and career building, NASA ORBIT (Opportunities in Research, Business, Innovation, and Technology) has officially returned for a second season to bring university and college student innovation to the forefront of Earth technology development and deep-space exploration. Registration for the 2026–2027 challenge is open through Monday, Nov. 16, 2026,","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:05000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/learning-resources/research-program-for-students/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3b9ce3604bcf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T15:00:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENGLAND","what":"Pathway to stronger public control of the water industry revealed","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Water Bill to remove caps on government share ownership in water firms","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Water Bill to remove caps on government share ownership in water firms","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/pathway-to-stronger-public-control-of-the-water-industry-revealed","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2aa37a4ae35c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T15:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MADRID","what":"El Gobierno acuerda medidas urgentes para favorecer el derecho a la vivienda","headline":"Government agrees urgent measures to support the right to housing","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Moncloa, Madrid, martes 29 de septiembre de 2026 Las normas aprobadas incluyen la protecci&oacute;n frente a los desahucios, la prohibici&oacute;n de las compras especulativas por parte de fondos y la renovaci&oacu…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"La Moncloa, Madrid, martes 29 de septiembre de 2026 Las normas aprobadas incluyen la protecci&oacute;n frente a los desahucios, la prohibici&oacute;n de las compras especulativas por parte de fondos y la renovaci&oacute;n de los contratos de alquiler. El Ejecutivo tambi&eacute;n ha adoptado un tercer paquete de medidas para proteger a hogares y sectores afectados por la guerra en Ir&aacute;n.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The approved rules include protection from evictions, the prohibition of speculative purchases by funds and the renewal of rental contracts. The Executive has also adopted a third package of measures to protect households and sectors affected by the war in Iran.","context_en":"The approved rules include protection from evictions, the prohibition of speculative purchases by funds and the renewal of rental contracts. The Executive has also adopted a third package of measures to protect households and sectors affected by the war in Iran.","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"La Moncloa","url":"https://www.lamoncloa.gob.es/consejodeministros/resumenes/Paginas/2026/290926-rueda-prensa-ministros.aspx?qfr=1","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7def5f429e05","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:44:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Japan elderly population hits fresh high at 29.4%: 2025 census","headline":"Japan's elderly population reached a record 29.4 percent in the 2025 census","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"People aged 65 and over account for a record-high 29.4 percent of Japan's population, the finalized 2025 census results showed Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"People aged 65 and over account for a record-high 29.4 percent of Japan's population, the finalized 2025 census results showed Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:14000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86663","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"80b985c1bbd9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:43:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"Legion of Honour: Police investigate corruption claims for France’s top award","headline":"French police held a top general in custody last week in a probe into possible bribery for Legion of Honour awards in France","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"French police took a top general into custody last week as part of an ongoing probe into potential bribery among the selection committee for the country’s highest decoration, the Legion of Honour.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"French police took a top general into custody last week as part of an ongoing probe into potential bribery among the selection committee for the country’s highest decoration, the Legion of Honour. Investigations centre on possible payoffs for awards including expansive meals, holidays and thousands of euros in cash.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/france/20260929-legion-of-honour-police-investigate-corruption-claims-for-france-s-top-award","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4d2732d39764","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:40:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FRANCE","what":"French civil servants strike, demand additional budgetary resources","headline":"French civil servants struck in more than 170 rallies across France on Tuesday to demand extra money for schools, hospitals and other public services","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"French civil servants were mobilising in large numbers on Tuesday, with more than 170 rallies planned across France.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"French civil servants were mobilising in large numbers on Tuesday, with more than 170 rallies planned across France. A coalition of unions are demanding additional budgetary resources for schools, hospitals, and other public services. Among those on strike are firefighters, pushed to their limits by the summer's historic wildfires. Here's a look at one of the protests in Lyon.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:09000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20260929-french-civil-servants-strike-demand-additional-budgetary-resources","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b9d625bb3514","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:33:26.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"L’Assemblée nationale juge recevable le projet de loi sur la lutte contre la corruption","headline":"National Assembly deems anti-corruption bill admissible","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Radio Okapi · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"L’Assemblée nationale juge recevable le projet de loi sur la lutte contre la corruption","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The National Assembly deems the bill on the fight against corruption admissible.","context_en":"The National Assembly deems the bill on the fight against corruption admissible.","lang":"fr","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/29/actualite/politique/lassemblee-nationale-juge-recevable-le-projet-de-loi-sur-la-lutte","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7cf2a4042625","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:31:06.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GEORGIA","what":"University of Georgia student dancing on couch near window falls 8 stories and survives","headline":"University of Georgia student Kristen Elizabeth Sargent fell eight stories from a window in Athens and survived","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Kristen Elizabeth Sargent, 21, landed on the pool deck below, Athens-Clarke County police said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Kristen Elizabeth Sargent, 21, landed on the pool deck below, Athens-Clarke County police said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NBC News","url":"https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/university-georgia-student-dancing-couch-window-falls-8-stories-surviv-rcna600465","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9a6fd923b793","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:30:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ESBJERG","what":"Restriktion for kvæg i Esbjerg efter diarréudbrud","headline":"Cattle restriction in Esbjerg after diarrhoea outbreak","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Restriktion for kvæg i Esbjerg efter diarréudbrud","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A restriction has been placed on cattle in Esbjerg following a diarrhoea outbreak.","context_en":"A restriction has been placed on cattle in Esbjerg following a diarrhoea outbreak.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/restriktion-kvaeg-i-esbjerg-efter-diarreudbrud","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1ff74ff30e32","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T14:20:08.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEXAS","what":"NSTGRO 2026","headline":"Texas students won Nasa grants for space docking ports, satellite groups and heat switches in 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"NSTGRO Homepage Omar AlyousefUniversity Of MemphisPolycatenated Architected Materials (PAM) for Origami-Inspired Space Docking Ports Cade ArmstrongUniversity Of Texas at AustinIntelligent Multi-Agent Constellations fo…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"NSTGRO Homepage Omar AlyousefUniversity Of MemphisPolycatenated Architected Materials (PAM) for Origami-Inspired Space Docking Ports Cade ArmstrongUniversity Of Texas at AustinIntelligent Multi-Agent Constellations for Cooperative Cislunar Operations Laurel BarnettHarvard UniversityPhotonic SNSPD Readout and Feed Forward System for Improved Optical Communication Capabilities Katie BarcakWilliam Marsh Rice UniversityCompact magnetic heat switch for thermal management of long duration low","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"NASA","url":"https://www.nasa.gov/directorates/stmd/space-tech-research-grants/nstgro/nstgro-2026/","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"db6933df0f78","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:56:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LITHUANIA","what":"Lithuanian defence minister apologises over 48,000-euro staff party","headline":"Lithuania's defence minister Robertas Kaunas apologised for a 48,000-euro staff party and said a new system to motivate employees would be created","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lithuania's Defence Minister Robertas Kaunas apologised over a party for ministry employees that cost nearly 48,000 euros and said a new system for motivating staff and building a sense of community would be created.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lithuania's Defence Minister Robertas Kaunas apologised over a party for ministry employees that cost nearly 48,000 euros and said a new system for motivating staff and building a sense of community would be created.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"LRT","url":"https://www.lrt.lt/en/news-in-english/19/3067411/lithuanian-defence-minister-apologises-over-48-000-euro-staff-party","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"43e9ba73442a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:55:09.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Government strengthens firearms licensing safeguards","headline":"Government added safeguards to its firearms licensing process to improve public safety and risk assessment by police","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New licensing safeguards will strengthen public safety and help police assess risks.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New licensing safeguards will strengthen public safety and help police assess risks.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-strengthens-firearms-licensing-safeguards","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"24b96d360157","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:53:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"RUSSIA","what":"Bombefly styrtet ned i Rusland - seks døde","headline":"Bomber aircraft crashes in Russia - six dead","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Bombefly styrtet ned i Rusland - seks døde","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A bomber aircraft has crashed in Russia, killing six people.","context_en":"A bomber aircraft has crashed in Russia, killing six people.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/bombefly-styrtet-ned-i-rusland-seks-doede","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"36106382a67a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:33:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Teleselskaber skal blokere svindel-opkald fra udlandet","headline":"Telecom companies must block scam calls from abroad","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Teleselskaber skal blokere svindel-opkald fra udlandet","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Telecom companies must block scam calls from abroad.","context_en":"Telecom companies must block scam calls from abroad.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/teleselskaber-skal-blokere-svindel-opkald-fra-udlandet","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9b87c1778ed6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:31:14.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BUNIA","what":"Malgré l’ultimatum d’une semaine, 2 véhicules sur 4 circulent sans plaque à Bunia, déplore la police","headline":"Despite one-week ultimatum, 2 vehicles out of 4 circulate without plates in Bunia, police deplore","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Malgré l’ultimatum d’une semaine accordé depuis jeudi 24 septembre aux propriétaires de véhicules sans plaques d’immatriculation officielles pour se mettre en règle, deux véhicules sur quatre circulent toujours sans p…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Malgré l’ultimatum d’une semaine accordé depuis jeudi 24 septembre aux propriétaires de véhicules sans plaques d’immatriculation officielles pour se mettre en règle, deux véhicules sur quatre circulent toujours sans plaque à Bunia, déplore la Police nationale congolaise (PNC) en Ituri. L’échéance fixée par les autorités expire jeudi 1er octobre.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Despite the one-week ultimatum granted since Thursday 24 September to owners of vehicles without official registration plates to comply, two vehicles out of four are still circulating without plates in Bunia, the Congolese National Police (PNC) in Ituri deplores. The deadline set by the authorities expires Thursday 1 October.","context_en":"Despite the one-week ultimatum granted since Thursday 24 September to owners of vehicles without official registration plates to comply, two vehicles out of four are still circulating without plates in Bunia, the Congolese National Police (PNC) in Ituri deplores. The deadline set by the authorities expires Thursday 1 October.","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/29/actualite/societe/malgre-lultimatum-dune-semaine-2-vehicules-sur-4-circulent-sans-plaque","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"406387fb0c95","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:29:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"MALAYSIA","what":"Malaysia begins controversial repatriation of asylum seekers to Myanmar","headline":"Malaysia started sending asylum seekers back to Myanmar on Wednesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Human rights groups say some 5,000 returnees could face violence, persecution and forced conscription.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Human rights groups say some 5,000 returnees could face violence, persecution and forced conscription.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/ckj06542e5neo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/myanmar-ships-with-returnees-from-malaysia-enter-home-waters-state-media-says","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"bf601a45e868","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:29:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"1st public insurance-covered iPS heart sheet surgery conducted in Japan","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A Japanese hospital on Tuesday conducted surgery to treat severe heart failure using a cardiac muscle sheet derived from induced p Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A Japanese hospital on Tuesday conducted surgery to treat severe heart failure using a cardiac muscle sheet derived from induced p Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86694","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"d91acee21c38","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:14:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Mand fundet bundet med strips og malet med rød maling","headline":"Man found bound with zip ties and painted with red paint","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Mand fundet bundet med strips og malet med rød maling","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A man was found bound with zip ties and painted with red paint.","context_en":"A man was found bound with zip ties and painted with red paint.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/mand-fundet-bundet-med-strips-og-malet-med-roed-maling","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"84c4dc1a6a1f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:08:55.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SINGAPORE","what":"Man charged over AI image of crocodile in Singapore reservoir","headline":"A man faced charges in Singapore after he created an AI image of a crocodile in the city's largest reservoir that triggered a search","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The defendant could face jail or a fine after the image sparked a search operation in the city’s largest reservoir.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The defendant could face jail or a fine after the image sparked a search operation in the city’s largest reservoir.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/c6grveg7d9zro?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c51cf2313cb9","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T13:06:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Amazon taking part in Taiwan PCB maker's private placement","headline":"Amazon joined a private placement by Taiwan PCB maker Gold Circuit Electronics on Sept. 29","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Amazon.com Inc., one of the four major U.S. cloud service providers, is participating as a strategic investor in a private placement by Taiwan-based printed circuit board (PCB) maker Gold Circuit Electronics Inc., the Taiwanese manufacturer said on Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609290021","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6bf4c9b3726a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:50:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Israel election panel clears three parties after barring Arab list","headline":"Israel election panel cleared Otzma Yehudit, Religious Zionism-Zehut and the Democrats for the October vote after barring an Arab list","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Central Elections Committee rejected bids to disqualify Otzma Yehudit, Religious Zionism–Zehut and the Democrats from the October vote.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Central Elections Committee rejected bids to disqualify Otzma Yehudit, Religious Zionism–Zehut and the Democrats from the October vote. Ra’am and the Joint List plan to appeal their exclusions.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000574","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"JNS","url":"https://www.jns.org/news/israel-news/israel-election-panel-clears-3-parties-after-barring-arab-list","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"34dd7c963e93","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:47:56.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"‘Didn’t quite meet the bar’: OpenAI won’t release new AI model due to safety concerns","headline":"OpenAI withheld its GPT-6.1 Astra model because it did not meet safety standards","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"OpenAI said it won’t release its latest model, dubbed GPT-6.1 Astra, because it “didn’t quite meet the bar” for safety.","quote":"didn’t quite meet the bar","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"OpenAI said it won’t release its latest model, dubbed GPT-6.1 Astra, because it “didn’t quite meet the bar” for safety. The decision, which the Wall Street Journal first reported on Monday, comes as industry leaders call for an AI development slowdown. Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei first proposed “pacing the frontier” earlier this month in an …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/didnt-quite-meet-the-bar-openai-wont-release-new-ai-model-due-to-safety-concerns/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8509ad665346","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:39:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WEST BANK","what":"Israeli settlers attack West Bank village and block Palestinian family's return home","headline":"Settlers attacked a West Bank village in the Palestinian territories, set two homes on fire and blocked a Palestinian family's return home","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Two homes belonging to the al-Tubasi family were set on fire and Israeli security forces were also targeted by settlers.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Two homes belonging to the al-Tubasi family were set on fire and Israeli security forces were also targeted by settlers.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cvlylj41egxgo?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"France 24","url":"https://www.france24.com/en/video/20260929-over-100-settlers-attack-occupied-west-bank-village-clash-with-israeli-forces","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fb5000347e7a","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:34:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Russian pizza chain with 1,500 locations confirms cyberattack following hacker claims","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"According to Dodo Pizza, the potentially compromised information included customers’ names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, dates of birth and order details.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"According to Dodo Pizza, the potentially compromised information included customers’ names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers, dates of birth and order details.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000082","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/russian-pizza-chain-dodo-confirms-data-breach","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"69894fef8c98","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:31:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DEVON","what":"'Reckless' South West Water fined £7.8 million","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The court found that the company’s conduct amounted to reckless failures as judge says that 'incidents of pollution will not be tolerated'.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The court found that the company’s conduct amounted to reckless failures as judge says that 'incidents of pollution will not be tolerated'.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/reckless-south-west-water-fined-78-million","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e270a0d0d58","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:31:04.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Commission greenlights Austria's final payment request of €306 million under NextGenerationEU","headline":"European Commission approved Austria's final €306 million payment request under NextGenerationEU in Brussels, Belgium","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Today, the European Commission positively assessed Austria's fifth and final payment request for €306 million under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), t…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Today, the European Commission positively assessed Austria's fifth and final payment request for €306 million under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF), the centrepiece of NextGenerationEU.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2010","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2007","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"656c605fe99e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:27:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ARIZONA","what":"Arizona Supreme Court says hackers stole residents’ personal data","headline":"Arizona Supreme Court said hackers stole residents personal data","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A spokesperson for the court system told Recorded Future News that the incident did not involve ransomware and the hackers have not issued ransom demands for the stolen data as of Monday.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A spokesperson for the court system told Recorded Future News that the incident did not involve ransomware and the hackers have not issued ransom demands for the stolen data as of Monday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Record","url":"https://therecord.media/arizona-supreme-court-says-hackers-stole-data","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b13c24b18664","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:19:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ISRAEL","what":"Israel axes aliyah approval for Jewish activists involved in pro-Palestinian advocacy - interview","headline":"Israel revoked aliyah approval for two Jewish activists in their 20s who worked with Palestinian communities in the West Bank","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Population and Immigration Authority overturned the aliyah approvals of two activists in their 20s, who have worked with Palestinian communities in the West Bank.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Population and Immigration Authority overturned the aliyah approvals of two activists in their 20s, who have worked with Palestinian communities in the West Bank.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910058","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"4be87b451182","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:16:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Japan's Ochiai sets Asian Games record to win men's 800","headline":"Japan's Ko Ochiai set an Asian Games record to win the men's 800 meters in Aichi on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan's Ko Ochiai ran to victory in the men's 800-meter gold medal Tuesday at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games in a meet-recor Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan's Ko Ochiai ran to victory in the men's 800-meter gold medal Tuesday at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games in a meet-recor Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86717","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"bb312abb88cf","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:15:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"B&O udsender nøgletal før tid efter læk af fortroligt dokument","headline":"B&O releases key figures early after leak of confidential document","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"B&O udsender nøgletal før tid efter læk af fortroligt dokument","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"B&O has released its key figures earlier than planned after a leak of a confidential document.","context_en":"B&O has released its key figures earlier than planned after a leak of a confidential document.","lang":"da","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/b-o-udsender-noegletal-foer-tid-efter-laek-af-fortroligt-dokument","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8b5df6edbd9d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:07:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Japan SDF to incorporate long-range missiles into drill with U.S. in Oct.","headline":"Japan Ground Self-Defense Force will use long-range missiles in a joint drill with the US in October","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Japanese Ground Self-Defense Force will incorporate its long-range missiles into a major Japan-U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Japanese Ground Self-Defense Force will incorporate its long-range missiles into a major Japan-U.S. joint drill starting in Oc Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86716","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"0bbeb5a55657","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T12:02:15.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAZA","what":"Hamas official's arrest in Gaza gave Israel intelligence surge to kill top terrorists - exclusive","headline":"Israel killed three Hamas brigade commanders in Gaza after it captured senior Hamas security official Mu'in al-Arabid on September 2","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Three Hamas brigade commanders have been killed since September 11, following the September 2 capture of senior Hamas security official Mu'in al-Arabid in Gaza.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Three Hamas brigade commanders have been killed since September 11, following the September 2 capture of senior Hamas security official Mu'in al-Arabid in Gaza.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910056","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e5c2d17a0d8b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:44:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwan economic indicators stay strong for 9th straight month: NDC","headline":"Taiwan's economy stayed strong for a ninth month in August on exports and stocks amid the global AI boom, the NDC said Tuesday in Taipei","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Taiwan's economy maintained strong momentum in August, with an index gauging economic conditions flashing a \"red\" light, indicating a booming economy, for the ninth consecutive month on robust exports and a high-flying stock market amid the global artificial intelligence (AI) boom, the National Development Council (NDC) said Tuesday.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/business/202609290019","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c23d954873db","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:43:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Search for missing students leads to human remains, 17 suspects","headline":"Police found human remains while searching for missing students and arrested 17 suspects after new phone call analysis","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A new analysis of phone calls made on the night of the students' disappearance led to the arrests of 17 new suspects, officials said.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A new analysis of phone calls made on the night of the students' disappearance led to the arrests of 17 new suspects, officials said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CBS News","url":"https://www.cbsnews.com/news/missing-students-mexico-human-remains-new-suspects-ayotzinapa/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fc1a3edf52f4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:33:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTH KIVU","what":"Plus de 2 000 familles déplacées dans une situation humanitaire précaire à Walikale et Kalehe","headline":"More than 2,000 displaced families in precarious humanitarian situation in Walikale and Kalehe","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Près de 2 350 familles déplacées vivent dans des conditions humanitaires précaires à Lukaraba, dans le territoire de Walikale au Nord-Kivu, et à Hombo Sud, dans le territoire de Kalehe au Sud-Kivu, selon le Club des F…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Près de 2 350 familles déplacées vivent dans des conditions humanitaires précaires à Lukaraba, dans le territoire de Walikale au Nord-Kivu, et à Hombo Sud, dans le territoire de Kalehe au Sud-Kivu, selon le Club des Filles Reporters RDC (CFR RDC).","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Nearly 2,350 displaced families are living in precarious humanitarian conditions in Lukaraba, in Walikale territory in North Kivu, and in Hombo Sud, in Kalehe territory in South Kivu, according to the Club des Filles Reporters RDC (CFR RDC).","context_en":"Nearly 2,350 displaced families are living in precarious humanitarian conditions in Lukaraba, in Walikale territory in North Kivu, and in Hombo Sud, in Kalehe territory in South Kivu, according to the Club des Filles Reporters RDC (CFR RDC).","lang":"fr","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Radio Okapi","url":"https://www.radiookapi.net/2026/09/29/actualite/securite/plus-de-2-000-familles-deplacees-dans-une-situation-humanitaire","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"821ce7b08f98","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:18:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WASHINGTON","what":"US ban on Canadian alcohol, dairy products and motorcycles takes effect as trade dispute escalates","headline":"Trump's ban on nearly 1 billion dollars of Canadian alcohol, dairy and motorcycles took effect in Washington today as the trade dispute with Canada worsened","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Donald Trump's ban on nearly $1 billion worth of Canadian goods has come into force, further escalating a trade dispute between the longtime allies.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Donald Trump's ban on nearly $1 billion worth of Canadian goods has come into force, further escalating a trade dispute between the longtime allies.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Global News","url":"https://globalnews.ca/news/12077209/trump-canadian-booze-ban/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"DW","url":"https://www.dw.com/en/us-ban-on-canadian-alcohol-dairy-products-and-motorcycles-takes-effect-as-trade-dispute-escalates/a-79471701?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-xml-mrss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News","url":"https://abcnews.com/Business/alcohol-motorcycles-canadian-products-banned-us/story?id=136848447","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6821b8f7f283","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:15:42.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"AIDC, Corrections Agency hold counter-drone drill","headline":"Aerospace Industrial Development Corp joined the Agency of Corrections first counter-drone drill in Taiwan on Sept 29","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Taiwanese aerospace company Aerospace Industrial Development Corp. (AIDC) said Tuesday it had participated in the Agency of Corrections' first-ever counterdrone drill earlier this month.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202609290018","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c7cae9d359cb","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:13:57.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"DENMARK","what":"Verdens største skib passerer Storebæltsbroen","headline":"World's largest ship passes under the Great Belt Bridge","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Verdens største skib passerer Storebæltsbroen","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The world's largest ship passes under the Great Belt Bridge.","context_en":"The world's largest ship passes under the Great Belt Bridge.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/verdens-stoerste-skib-passerer-storebaeltsbroen","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"70357e124829","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:10:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Government goes further to protect leaseholders","headline":"Government gave leaseholders more rights and better protections under new rules","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Leaseholders will be given more rights and better protections under new rules, the government can confirm today.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Leaseholders will be given more rights and better protections under new rules, the government can confirm today.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/government-goes-further-to-protect-leaseholders","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"906907041463","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:08:21.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"YEMEN","what":"FM, UN envoy discuss latest developments in Yemen","headline":"Egyptian Foreign Minister Badr Abdelatty met UN envoy Hans Grundberg on September 28 2026 to discuss Yemen developments and regional security","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Egyptian Expatriates Badr Abdelatty on Monday, September 28, 2026, met with UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg, as they discussed the latest developmen…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Egyptian Expatriates Badr Abdelatty on Monday, September 28, 2026, met with UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg, as they discussed the latest developments in Yemen and their repercussions for regional security. Foreign Ministry Spokesman Nader Zaki said that Abdelatty reaffirmed Egypt’s steadfast position in supporting Yemen’s unity …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/fm-un-envoy-discuss-latest-developments-in-yemen/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0c0b32e547e4","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:08:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NORTHERN IRELAND","what":"Nearly 50 arrests in people smuggling crackdown at Irish border","headline":"Police in the United Kingdom arrested nearly 50 people in a week-long people smuggling crackdown at the Irish border","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Week of action targets criminal gangs who illegally try to enter the UK from Ireland, comes alongside a wider 74% surge in organised immigration crime arrests.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Week of action targets criminal gangs who illegally try to enter the UK from Ireland, comes alongside a wider 74% surge in organised immigration crime arrests.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/nearly-50-arrests-in-people-smuggling-crackdown-at-irish-border","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8e8235b1946e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:06:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ROME","what":"Irrigation Minister arrives in Rome for Euro-Mediterranean Water Forum","headline":"Egyptian Irrigation Minister Hani Sewilam arrived in Rome, Italy on Tuesday, September 29, 2026 for the Euro-Mediterranean Water Forum","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Minister of Water Resources and Irrigation Hani Sewilam arrived in Rome on Tuesday, September 29, 2026, to participate in the 2026 Euro-Mediterranean Water Forum, which runs from September 29 to October 2.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Minister of Water Resources and Irrigation Hani Sewilam arrived in Rome on Tuesday, September 29, 2026, to participate in the 2026 Euro-Mediterranean Water Forum, which runs from September 29 to October 2. The forum brings together ministers, senior officials, experts, and representatives of international and regional organizations and institutions working on water-related issues. Sewilam is …","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Egypt Independent","url":"https://www.egyptindependent.com/irrigation-minister-arrives-in-rome-for-euro-mediterranean-water-forum/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9f9648b28f07","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T11:00:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENGLAND","what":"Practice direction for possession proceedings comes into force","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Online Procedure Rule Committee's practice direction for possession proceedings is now in force.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Online Procedure Rule Committee's practice direction for possession proceedings is now in force. It sets out the procedure for claims using the new digital service for possession claims.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/practice-direction-for-possession-proceedings-comes-into-force","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"fd6873fe87c0","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:55:40.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"KMT, TPP legislators reject all 27 of Lai's Control Yuan nominees","headline":"Taiwan legislators from KMT and TPP rejected all 27 of Lai Ching-te's Control Yuan nominees in Taipei on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) The opposition-controlled Legislative Yuan on Tuesday voted down all 27 of President Lai Ching-te's (賴清德) nominees for the Control Yuan, Taiwan's government watchdog body.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202609290017","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"1217207da3e2","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:54:03.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"HARTLEPOOL","what":"Green light for £25m Greatham North East Flood Alleviation Scheme","headline":"Hartlepool Borough Council in the United Kingdom approved the Environment Agency's 25 million pound Greatham North East flood alleviation scheme","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Planning approval for the Environment Agency’s Greatham North East flood alleviation scheme has now been granted by Hartlepool Borough Council.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Planning approval for the Environment Agency’s Greatham North East flood alleviation scheme has now been granted by Hartlepool Borough Council.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/green-light-for-25m-greatham-north-east-flood-alleviation-scheme","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"8ab1e1229554","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:42:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"Opening speech by President von der Leyen at the Connecting Europe Days","headline":"President von der Leyen gave the opening speech at Connecting Europe Days in Brussels, Belgium on 29 Sep 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 “Check against delivery” Commissioner Tzitzikostas, dear Apostolos, Commissioner Andrius Kubilius, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a pleasure to be at the Connect...","quote":"Check against delivery","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Speech Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 “Check against delivery” Commissioner Tzitzikostas, dear Apostolos, Commissioner Andrius Kubilius, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a pleasure to be at the Connect...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_26_2005","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"0e18fd2889ca","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:38:37.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIWAN","what":"Taiwan's flu cases top 130,000 last week; drop expected in mid-October","headline":"Taiwan recorded more than 130,000 flu cases last week, with a drop expected in mid-October, the CDC said Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Taiwan recorded more than 130,000 flu-related outpatient and emergency hospital visits last week, with the epidemic expected to ease in mid-October, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) said on Tuesday, while warning that flu activity is rising in several neighboring countries.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"health","iptc":"medtop:07000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609290016","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d0616e2c48ba","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:38:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Ted Cruz college sports bill passes Senate, heads to House","headline":"Senate passed Ted Cruz college sports bill on 77-22 vote and sent it to the House","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A bipartisan bill led by Senator Ted Cruz that establishes federal rules for college sports NIL compensation, transfers, and NCAA oversight passed the U.S.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A bipartisan bill led by Senator Ted Cruz that establishes federal rules for college sports NIL compensation, transfers, and NCAA oversight passed the U.S. Senate on a 77-22 vote.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"$undefined","economics_flag":false,"trending":true,"confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"CW39 Houston","url":"https://cw39.com/sports/sec-sports/senate-passes-protect-college-sports-act/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"d7bebf9da3fd","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:34:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR","what":"Hurricane Polo makes landfall on Mexico's Pacific coast","headline":"Hurricane Polo came ashore as a category 2 storm in Baja California Sur, Mexico","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The storm moved ashore on the Baja California peninsula, which is a popular tourist destination.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The storm moved ashore on the Baja California peninsula, which is a popular tourist destination.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000148","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cw8d3z5y7958o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"531acf0e101b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T10:03:29.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"CUMBRIA","what":"Regulator investigates housing charity and restricts transactions","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Charity Commission has opened a statutory inquiry into Cumbria Community Homes (charity number 1184991).","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Charity Commission has opened a statutory inquiry into Cumbria Community Homes (charity number 1184991).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"courts","iptc":"medtop:20000106","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/regulator-investigates-housing-charity-and-restricts-transactions","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"50bddc6910b6","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:55:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"VIETNAM","what":"Three arrested on terrorism, forgery charges in Vietnam, including Norwegian, Australian citizens","headline":"Vietnam police arrested three people including a Norwegian and an Australian on terrorism and forgery charges","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The three were \"illegally entering Vietnam to conduct terrorist and sabotage activities,\"Vietnam's Ministry of Public Security said.","quote":"illegally entering Vietnam to conduct terrorist and sabotage activities,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The three were \"illegally entering Vietnam to conduct terrorist and sabotage activities,\"Vietnam's Ministry of Public Security said.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/international/article-910044","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/news/2026/09/29/asia-pacific/vietnam-norwegian-australian-terrorism/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The Straits Times","url":"https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/se-asia/vietnam-arrests-three-on-terrorism-charges-including-norwegian-and-australian-citizens","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c3245a5a7fd5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:43:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"INDONESIA","what":"Watch: Luxury units uncovered inside an Indonesian prison","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"A surprise inspection at the prison revealed apartment-like units appearing to house inmates, equipped with televisions, a gym and fridges stocked with alcohol.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"A surprise inspection at the prison revealed apartment-like units appearing to house inmates, equipped with televisions, a gym and fridges stocked with alcohol.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"BBC","url":"https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/videos/c6vgy293vvp3o?at_medium=RSS&at_campaign=rss","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"ABC News (Australia)","url":"https://www.abc.net.au/news/2026-09-30/luxury-compound-indonesian-prison-corruption-probe/107210416","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"The New York Times","url":"https://www.nytimes.com/2026/09/29/world/asia/indonesia-prison-luxury.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"16694a948046","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:40:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"FLENSBORG FJORD","what":"Danmark og Tyskland er enige om stop for bundslæbende fiskeri i Flensborg Fjord","headline":"Denmark and Germany agree to halt bottom trawling in Flensborg Fjord","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Danmark og Tyskland er enige om stop for bundslæbende fiskeri i Flensborg Fjord","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Denmark and Germany have agreed to stop bottom trawling in Flensborg Fjord.","context_en":"Denmark and Germany have agreed to stop bottom trawling in Flensborg Fjord.","lang":"da","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/danmark-og-tyskland-er-enige-om-stop-bundslaebende-fiskeri-i-flensborg-fjord","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"2d786d51ac02","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:32:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"AICHI","what":"Asian Games: Japan's Yamaguchi takes women's badminton silver","headline":"Japan's Akane Yamaguchi took silver in women's badminton at the Asian Games in Aichi on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japan's Akane Yamaguchi took women's badminton silver Tuesday at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games after South Korea's worl Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan's Akane Yamaguchi took women's badminton silver Tuesday at the Aichi-Nagoya Asian Games after South Korea's worl Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86692","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"fdf9ff3fe8b3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:31:53.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"COPENHAGEN","what":"Københavns Politi sigtede 23 cyklister for at køre uden lys","headline":"Copenhagen Police charge 23 cyclists for riding without lights","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Københavns Politi sigtede 23 cyklister for at køre uden lys","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Copenhagen Police charged 23 cyclists for riding without lights.","context_en":"Copenhagen Police charged 23 cyclists for riding without lights.","lang":"da","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/koebenhavns-politi-sigtede-23-cyklister-koere-uden-lys","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"aa5d8bd7913d","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:29:48.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ENGLAND","what":"National museums to remain free for everyone","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Free entry protected for every visitor to England's national museums","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Free entry protected for every visitor to England's national museums","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/national-museums-to-remain-free-for-everyone","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"9651a9e6dcb7","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:27:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"KMT proposes NT$20,000 universal cash handout","headline":"KMT proposed a universal NT$20,000 cash handout funded by surplus tax revenues in Taiwan on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Taiwan's main opposition Kuomintang (KMT) on Tuesday proposed using surplus tax revenues to fund a universal NT$20,000 (US$627.31) cash handout, double the amount proposed last month by President Lai Ching-te (賴清德).","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":true,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/politics/202609290013","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"faca32bf3c33","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:18:49.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"BRUSSELS","what":"EU support to research and innovation increases with additional €500 million for research programme Horizon Europe*","headline":"The European Commission in Belgium added 500 million euros to the Horizon Europe research programme for 2026 and 2027","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Today, the European Commission allocated an additional €500 million to Horizon Europe, the EU's flagship research and innovation programme, for 2026 and 2027.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"European Commission Press release Brussels, 29 Sep 2026 Today, the European Commission allocated an additional €500 million to Horizon Europe, the EU's flagship research and innovation programme, for 2026 and 2027.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"European Commission","url":"https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_26_2004","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"5380febf97dc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:14:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LEICESTER","what":"One arrest as online illegal ‘smokies’ targeted in NFCU operation","headline":"Police arrested one person in Leicester, United Kingdom, in a multi-agency operation that targeted the online sale of illegal smokies","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The Food Standard Agency's (FSA) National Food Crime Unit (NFCU) has taken part in a multi-agency day of action in Leicester, targeting the illegal sale of ‘smokies’ through an online business.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The Food Standard Agency's (FSA) National Food Crime Unit (NFCU) has taken part in a multi-agency day of action in Leicester, targeting the illegal sale of ‘smokies’ through an online business.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/one-arrest-as-online-illegal-smokies-targeted-in-nfcu-operation","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b2e5bd0ede79","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:07:27.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TAIPEI","what":"2 indicted after paint, feces thrown at stand-up show mocking Xi Jinping","headline":"Prosecutors in Taiwan indicted two men after they threw paint and feces at a Taipei stand-up show that mocked Xi Jinping on September 29","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Taipei, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Taipei, Sept. 29 (CNA) Prosecutors on Tuesday indicted two men over the pelting of a show in Taipei by stand-up comedian Huang Yi-hao (黃逸豪) with a mixture of paint and human feces.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Focus Taiwan (CNA)","url":"https://focustaiwan.tw/society/202609290012","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"7e6a8d0d2779","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:00:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"CMA proposes to accept remedies package in Co-op Group deal to address competition concerns","headline":"CMA proposed accepting remedies from Co-op Group in its Southern Co-op takeover to ease competition worries","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Undertakings offered by Co-op Group could address competition concerns relating to its acquisition of Southern Co-op.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Undertakings offered by Co-op Group could address competition concerns relating to its acquisition of Southern Co-op.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/cma-proposes-to-accept-remedies-package-in-co-op-group-deal-to-address-competition-concerns","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c101f39cf331","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:00:12.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"PHOENIX","what":"Earlier action, faster recovery, tougher on fraud: Insolvency Service launches strategy to strengthen confidence and growth","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"New strategy marks significant shift for the Agency – helping people and businesses deal with financial trouble earlier, as well as making quicker returns to the economy, and stepping up action against those who abuse…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"New strategy marks significant shift for the Agency – helping people and businesses deal with financial trouble earlier, as well as making quicker returns to the economy, and stepping up action against those who abuse the sy…","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/earlier-action-faster-recovery-tougher-on-fraud-insolvency-service-launches-strategy-to-strengthen-confidence-and-growth","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"a273a341cf14","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:00:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"RAIB has a new Chief Inspector","headline":"Andy Lewis took over as chief inspector of rail accidents at the RAIB","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Andy Lewis has been appointed as the new Chief Inspector of Rail Accidents.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Andy Lewis has been appointed as the new Chief Inspector of Rail Accidents.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/raib-has-a-new-chief-inspector","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"f88114819ad5","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T09:00:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEOUL","what":"Less than 40% of S. Koreans say unification with N. Korea necessary: poll","headline":"A poll in South Korea showed less than 40 percent of South Koreans see unification with North Korea as necessary, on Monday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL - Less than 40 percent of South Koreans view unification with North Korea as necessary, a poll showed Monday, with younger p Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL - Less than 40 percent of South Koreans view unification with North Korea as necessary, a poll showed Monday, with younger p Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86687","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true},{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260928009000315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"10df0801a406","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:45:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"Japan-Mongolia Summit Meeting","headline":"Japan and Mongolia held a summit meeting on September 29 2026","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Prime Minister’s Office of Japan · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japan-Mongolia Summit Meeting","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Prime Minister’s Office of Japan","url":"https://japan.kantei.go.jp/105/actions/202609/29mongolia.html","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"3c60d85edf38","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:34:30.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TEL AVIV","what":"Private hospital in Tel Aviv shut down over severe safety violations following surprise inspection","headline":"$undefined","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The district physician issued the order Monday evening after the inspection found deficiencies that the ministry said posed a serious and immediate danger to patients' health and safety.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The district physician issued the order Monday evening after the inspection found deficiencies that the ministry said posed a serious and immediate danger to patients' health and safety.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Jerusalem Post","url":"https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-910037","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"17ae6ddb3cd1","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:34:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LOS ANGELES","what":"Asian Games: Japanese surfers Igarashi, Ikeda book 2028 Olympic tickets","headline":"Japanese surfers Kanoa Igarashi and Mirai Ikeda won gold at the Asian Games and qualified for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Japanese surfers Kanoa Igarashi and Mirai Ikeda conditionally qualified for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics by winning gold at the A Read full story here","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Japanese surfers Kanoa Igarashi and Mirai Ikeda conditionally qualified for the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics by winning gold at the A Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"The Japan Times","url":"https://www.japantimes.co.jp/sports/2026/09/30/asian-games/ikeda-igarashi-asian-games-gold/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"},{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86693","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"b63789aab0bc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:31:00.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JAPAN","what":"China's BYD launches new EV model Atto 3 EX in Japan","headline":"Chinese company BYD launched its new Atto 3 EX electric vehicle in Japan on Tuesday","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Chinese electric vehicle giant BYD Co.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Chinese electric vehicle giant BYD Co. on Tuesday launched an updated version of its Atto 3 mid-size sport utility vehicle in Japa Read full story here","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kyodo News","url":"https://english.kyodonews.net/articles/-/86691","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":true}]},{"id":"a29020bd5a9c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:24:05.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"JYLLAND","what":"Tysk militær overvågningsdrone flyver over Jylland","headline":"German military surveillance drone flies over Jylland","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"DR · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tysk militær overvågningsdrone flyver over Jylland","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"A German military surveillance drone is flying over Jylland.","context_en":"A German military surveillance drone is flying over Jylland.","lang":"da","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"DR","url":"https://www.dr.dk/nyheder/seneste/tysk-militaer-overvaagningsdrone-flyver-over-jylland","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"30f93dbc3015","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:14:50.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Toolkit published to help civil servants engage with academics","headline":"Civil servants got a new guide that draws on government experience to link academic expertise with policy needs","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Drawing on experience from across government, the resource brings together useful guidance on connecting academic expertise with policy needs.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Drawing on experience from across government, the resource brings together useful guidance on connecting academic expertise with policy needs.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000593","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"UK Government","url":"https://www.gov.uk/government/news/toolkit-published-to-help-civil-servants-engage-with-academics","tier":"T1_gov","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"67ab79d07d7b","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:02:21.266Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"WORLD","what":"Lufthansa CEO says jet fuel hit to top €1.5 billion forecast","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Reuters · September 29, 2026.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Lufthansa CEO says jet fuel hit to top €1.5 billion forecast","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"economics","iptc":"medtop:04000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Reuters","url":"https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/lufthansa-ceo-says-jet-fuel-hit-top-15-billion-forecast-2026-09-29/","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"6e30cf9c1678","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:01:18.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LISBON","what":"El Gobierno portugués propone agilizar los desahucios pese al rechazo de los inquilinos","headline":"Portuguese government proposes speeding up evictions despite tenants' rejection","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Lisboa, 29 sep (EFE).- El Gobierno portugu&eacute;s propone reducir de tres a dos meses el impago que permite resolver un contrato de alquiler, una medida que el Parlamento debatir&aacute; este mi&eacute;rcoles y que…","quote":"violento ataque al derecho a la vivienda","quote_en":"violent attack on the right to housing","context":"Lisboa, 29 sep (EFE).- El Gobierno portugu&eacute;s propone reducir de tres a dos meses el impago que permite resolver un contrato de alquiler, una medida que el Parlamento debatir&aacute; este mi&eacute;rcoles y que organizaciones de inquilinos y consumidores cuestionan por el riesgo de aumentar la desprotecci&oacute;n de las familias. El Ejecutivo del conservador Lu&iacute;s Montenegro defiende que una mayor seguridad para los propietarios permitir&aacute; aumentar la oferta de casas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Portuguese government proposes reducing from three to two months the unpaid rent period that allows termination of a rental contract, a measure that Parliament will debate this Wednesday and that tenant and consumer organizations question due to the risk of increasing families' lack of protection. The executive of conservative Luís Montenegro defends that greater security for property owners","context_en":"The Portuguese government proposes reducing from three to two months the unpaid rent period that allows termination of a rental contract, a measure that Parliament will debate this Wednesday and that tenant and consumer organizations question due to the risk of increasing families' lack of protection. The executive of conservative Luís Montenegro defends that greater security for property owners","lang":"es","category":"government","iptc":"medtop:20000621","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/29/el-gobierno-portugues-propone-agilizar-los-desahucios-pese-al-rechazo-de-los-inquilinos/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"c6da815d5a4e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:01:11.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"SEVILLA","what":"La Guardia Civil detiene al presunto autor de robos en el interior de vehículos en Benacazón","headline":"Civil Guard arrests alleged author of vehicle break-ins in Benacazón","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"La Guardia Civil ha detenido a un vecino de Benacazón (Sevilla) como presunto autor de una escalada de robos en el interior de vehículos en dicha localidad.","quote":"extremadamente violenta","quote_en":"extremely violent","context":"La Guardia Civil ha detenido a un vecino de Benacazón (Sevilla) como presunto autor de una escalada de robos en el interior de vehículos en dicha localidad. Según ha detallado el Instituto Armado en una nota de prensa, el ahora detenido accedía a los vehículos tras forzar el marco de las ventanillas, sustrayendo principalmente herramientas de uso profesional.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Civil Guard has arrested a resident of Benacazón (Seville) as the alleged perpetrator of a series of thefts from inside vehicles in that town. According to the Armed Institute in a press note, the now-detained man accessed the vehicles by forcing the window frames, mainly stealing professional tools.","context_en":"The Civil Guard has arrested a resident of Benacazón (Seville) as the alleged perpetrator of a series of thefts from inside vehicles in that town. According to the Armed Institute in a press note, the now-detained man accessed the vehicles by forcing the window frames, mainly stealing professional tools.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000129","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/29/la-guardia-civil-detiene-al-presunto-autor-de-robos-en-el-interior-de-vehiculos-en-benacazon/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e78e953214fc","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:01:02.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LONDON","what":"Anthropic alerta de que su IA puede provocar \"riesgos existenciales para la humanidad\"","headline":"Anthropic warns its AI could pose 'existential risks to humanity'","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Londres, 29 sep (EFE).- Anthropic, creadora del modelo de inteligencia artificial Claude, ha advertido a potenciales inversores en el folleto sobre su prevista salida a bolsa de que su tecnología puede plantear \"riesg…","quote":"riesgos existenciales para la humanidad","quote_en":"existential risks to humanity","context":"Londres, 29 sep (EFE).- Anthropic, creadora del modelo de inteligencia artificial Claude, ha advertido a potenciales inversores en el folleto sobre su prevista salida a bolsa de que su tecnología puede plantear \"riesgos existenciales para la humanidad\", informa este martes el 'Financial Times'. La compañía estadounidense dedica una parte importante del documento a los riesgos asociados al desarrollo de modelos de IA cada vez más avanzados, entre ellos \"la posibilidad de que manipulen, chantajeen o desarrollen comportamientos impredecibles\", según el periódico.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Anthropic, creator of the Claude AI model, has warned potential investors in its planned IPO prospectus that its technology could pose 'existential risks to humanity,' the Financial Times reported Tuesday.","context_en":"Anthropic, creator of the Claude AI model, has warned potential investors in its planned IPO prospectus that its technology could pose 'existential risks to humanity,' the Financial Times reported Tuesday.","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:13000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/29/anthropic-alerta-de-que-su-ia-puede-provocar-riesgos-existenciales-para-la-humanidad/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"b674082bbb0c","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:00:45.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"TOKYO","what":"Alcaraz defiende su título en el torneo de Tokio","headline":"Alcaraz defends his title at the Tokyo tournament","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Tokio, 29 sep (EFE).- El torneo de Tokio de tenis arranca este mi&eacute;rcoles con el espa&ntilde;ol Carlos Alcaraz (n.3 ATP), campe&oacute;n de la edici&oacute;n de 2025, como primer cabeza de serie y que comenzar&a…","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Tokio, 29 sep (EFE).- El torneo de Tokio de tenis arranca este mi&eacute;rcoles con el espa&ntilde;ol Carlos Alcaraz (n.3 ATP), campe&oacute;n de la edici&oacute;n de 2025, como primer cabeza de serie y que comenzar&aacute; su defensa del t&iacute;tulo enfrent&aacute;ndose al estadounidense Alex Michelsen (n.34). El murciano apareci&oacute; este martes por primera vez en el recinto, en un v&iacute;deo publicado en redes sociales por los responsables del torneo, donde se le ve con buen &aacute;nimo y saludando a los organizadores, y rechazando sus intentos de llevarle las bolsas.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"The Tokyo tennis tournament begins this Wednesday with Spaniard Carlos Alcaraz (No. 3 ATP), champion of the 2025 edition, as the top seed. He will begin his title defense against American Alex Michelsen (No. 34). The player from Murcia appeared at the venue for the first time on Tuesday in a video published on social media by tournament officials, where he is seen in good spirits greeting the","context_en":"The Tokyo tennis tournament begins this Wednesday with Spaniard Carlos Alcaraz (No. 3 ATP), champion of the 2025 edition, as the top seed. He will begin his title defense against American Alex Michelsen (No. 34). The player from Murcia appeared at the venue for the first time on Tuesday in a video published on social media by tournament officials, where he is seen in good spirits greeting the","lang":"es","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:15000000","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/29/alcaraz-defiende-su-titulo-en-el-torneo-de-tokio/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"86f228cfc97e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:00:28.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"LUSTENAU","what":"Vorrang genommen - Drei Verletzte nach Unfall an Kreuzung in Lustenau","headline":"Right of way taken - Three injured after accident at intersection in Lustenau","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Am Montagabend kam es in Lustenau (Vorarlberg) zu einem schweren Verkehrsunfall mit zwei Pkw: Ein 21-jähriger Autolenker übersah beim Abbiegen in eine Vorrangstraße ein herannahendes Fahrzeug – es kam zur Kollision.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Am Montagabend kam es in Lustenau (Vorarlberg) zu einem schweren Verkehrsunfall mit zwei Pkw: Ein 21-jähriger Autolenker übersah beim Abbiegen in eine Vorrangstraße ein herannahendes Fahrzeug – es kam zur Kollision. Drei Personen wurden verletzt.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"On Monday evening, a serious traffic accident involving two cars occurred in Lustenau, Vorarlberg. A 21-year-old driver failed to see an approaching vehicle while turning into a priority road, resulting in a collision. Three people were injured.","context_en":"On Monday evening, a serious traffic accident involving two cars occurred in Lustenau, Vorarlberg. A 21-year-old driver failed to see an approaching vehicle while turning into a priority road, resulting in a collision. Three people were injured.","lang":"de","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Kronen Zeitung","url":"https://www.krone.at/4313556","tier":"T3_factslice","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"668c6ecc0289","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:00:24.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"GAZA","what":"Israel mata a tres gazatíes durante la madrugada, entre ellos un líder miliciano de Hamás","headline":"Israel kills three Gazans overnight, including a Hamas militia leader","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Gaza, 29 sep (EFE).- El Ejército israelí (FDI) mató a tres gazatíes durante la pasada madrugada, incluido un líder de las milicias del grupo islamista Hamás, en dos ataques independientes contra el norte y el centro d…","quote":"El Ejército israelí (FDI) mató a tres gazatíes durante la pasada madrugada, incluido un líder de las milicias del grupo islamista Hamás, en dos ataques independientes contra el norte y el centro de la Franja","quote_en":"The Israeli army killed three Gazans overnight, including a leader of Hamas militias, in two separate strikes on the north and center of the Strip.","context":"Gaza, 29 sep (EFE).- El Ejército israelí (FDI) mató a tres gazatíes durante la pasada madrugada, incluido un líder de las milicias del grupo islamista Hamás, en dos ataques independientes contra el norte y el centro de la Franja, informaron a EFE fuentes médicas del enclave palestino. El Hospital Al Shifa recibió los cadáveres de dos personas después de que las FDI impactaran contra un edificio residencial en el barrio de Al Nasr, en la ciudad de Gaza (norte de la Franja). Entre ellos se encontraba Ezz El Din Al Beik, líder en el norte de Gaza de las Brigadas Al Qassam, brazo armado de Hamás.","summary":"$undefined","translated":true,"deck_en":"Gaza, 29 Sep (EFE) - The Israeli army killed three Gazans overnight, including a leader of Hamas militias, in two separate strikes on the north and center of the Strip, medical sources in the Palestinian enclave told EFE.","context_en":"Gaza, 29 Sep (EFE) - The Israeli army killed three Gazans overnight, including a leader of Hamas militias, in two separate strikes on the north and center of the Strip, medical sources in the Palestinian enclave told EFE.","lang":"es","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000056","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":{"voices":1},"followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"The US and Israel opened strikes on Iran in late February 2026. The fight narrowed to control of the Strait of Hormuz after a June memorandum that lifted the dual blockades and opened a 60-day negotiating window collapsed on 8 July, followed by sustained US strikes. Iran struck three commercial tankers on 6 July that had bypassed its approved transit routes, including a Qatari gas tanker eight nautical miles off Limah, Oman. Trump declared the ceasefire over two days later and the US began nightly strikes. The IRGC moved to shut the strait on 12 July.\n\nOn 29 September Israeli forces conducted two separate strikes overnight in northern and central Gaza. The strikes killed three Gazans, including a leader of Hamas militias, according to medical sources in the enclave.\n\nThe fighting in Gaza continues inside the larger US-Iran conflict that has settled into repeated strike and counter-strike phases across the region.","sources":[{"outlet":"Infobae","url":"https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2026/09/29/israel-mata-a-tres-gazaties-durante-la-madrugada-entre-ellos-un-lider-miliciano-de-hamas/","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"09662f537a4f","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T08:00:07.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"NEW DELHI","what":"S. Korea, India discuss stalled Biho air defense deal at defense talks","headline":"South Korea and India talked about the stalled Biho air defense deal in defense talks in New Delhi on Sept 29","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"SEOUL, Sept.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"SEOUL, Sept. 29 (Yonhap) -- South Korea has discussed a stalled air defense syst...","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"world","iptc":"medtop:20000638","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Yonhap","url":"https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20260929002600315","tier":"T1_wire","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"68c275afab1e","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T07:59:47.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA","what":"Security forces kill 5 terrorists in KP IBO, 2 eliminated in Balochistan's Chagai: security sources","headline":"$undefined","written":true,"authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"Security forces on Tuesday killed five terrorists in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Bara area in an intelligence-based operation (IBO), and another two terrorists were eliminated in an operation in Balochistan’s Chagai, accordi…","quote":"As a result of the security forces’ operation, Fitna al Khawarij hideouts were completely destroyed,","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"Security forces on Tuesday killed five terrorists in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Bara area in an intelligence-based operation (IBO), and another two terrorists were eliminated in an operation in Balochistan’s Chagai, according to security sources. Large quantities of weapons and ammunition were recovered from the terrorists, who belonged to Fitna al Khawarij , security sources said on the operation in Bara. Fitna al Khawarij is a term the state uses for terrorists belonging to the banned Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan.","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"war","iptc":"medtop:20000053","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Dawn","url":"https://www.dawn.com/news/2033491/security-forces-kill-5-terrorists-in-kp-ibo-2-eliminated-in-balochistans-chagai-security-sources","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]},{"id":"e05a8feb6ad3","datetime_utc":"2026-09-29T07:58:58.000Z","date_only":"$undefined","place":"ZAMFARA","what":"41 travellers rescued after abduction attempt in Zamfara — Military","headline":"Military rescued 41 travellers unharmed after an abduction attempt in Zamfara, Nigeria","written":"$undefined","authoritative_report":"$undefined","authoritative_route":"$undefined","roster_route":"$undefined","cited_route":"$undefined","deck":"The military says the 41 travellers were rescued unharmed.","quote":"$undefined","quote_en":"$undefined","context":"The military says the 41 travellers were rescued unharmed. It identified them as 24 men, 10 women and seven children","summary":"$undefined","translated":"$undefined","deck_en":"$undefined","context_en":"$undefined","lang":"$undefined","category":"other","iptc":"medtop:20000139","economics_flag":false,"trending":"$undefined","confirmed_surfaced":"$undefined","listening":"$undefined","followed_trial":"$undefined","values_mark":"$undefined","corrected":"$undefined","history":"$undefined","sources":[{"outlet":"Premium Times","url":"https://www.premiumtimesng.com/regional/nwest/913180-41-travellers-rescued-after-abduction-attempt-in-zamfara-military.html","tier":"T2_indie","paywalled":"$undefined"}]}],"markets":[{"key":"ust_3m","label":"3-mo Treasury bill","value":4.17,"unit":"%","as_of":"2026-10-01","source":"U.S. Treasury","status":"live"},{"key":"ust_2y","label":"2-yr Treasury yield","value":4.78,"unit":"%","as_of":"2026-10-01","source":"U.S. Treasury","status":"live"},{"key":"ust_10y","label":"10-yr Treasury yield","value":5.24,"unit":"%","as_of":"2026-10-01","source":"U.S. Treasury","status":"live"},{"key":"ust_30y","label":"30-yr Treasury yield","value":5.61,"unit":"%","as_of":"2026-10-01","source":"U.S. Treasury","status":"live"},{"key":"spread_2s10s","label":"2s10s spread","value":46,"unit":"bps","as_of":"2026-10-01","source":"U.S. Treasury","status":"live","note":"inversion (2s10s below zero) is the market’s classic recession tell"},{"key":"sp500","label":"S&P 500","value":null,"unit":"index","as_of":null,"source":"FRED","status":"pending_key","note":"broad risk appetite"},{"key":"nasdaq","label":"Nasdaq Composite","value":null,"unit":"index","as_of":null,"source":"FRED","status":"pending_key"},{"key":"dow","label":"Dow (DIA proxy)","value":null,"unit":"index","as_of":null,"source":"Finnhub","status":"pending_key"},{"key":"vix","label":"VIX (volatility)","value":null,"unit":"index","as_of":null,"source":"FRED","status":"pending_key","note":"spikes flag market stress on war / shock stories"},{"key":"wti_oil","label":"WTI crude oil","value":null,"unit":"$$/bbl","as_of":null,"source":"FRED","status":"pending_key","note":"moves on war / sanctions / supply shocks"},{"key":"rate_expectation","label":"Fed funds rate","value":null,"unit":"%","as_of":null,"source":"FRED","status":"pending_key","note":"pairs with CME FedWatch implied-odds for the rate path"}],"editionTs":1790927789874,"trending":[]}]],null,"$L4b"]}],{},null,false]},null,false],"$L4c",false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$4d",[]],"s":false,"S":true}
4e:I[4431,[],"OutletBoundary"]
50:I[5278,[],"AsyncMetadataOutlet"]
52:I[4431,[],"ViewportBoundary"]
54:I[4431,[],"MetadataBoundary"]
55:"$Sreact.suspense"
4b:["$","$L4e",null,{"children":["$L4f",["$","$L50",null,{"promise":"$@51"}]]}]
4c:["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,[["$","$L52",null,{"children":"$L53"}],null],["$","$L54",null,{"children":["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$55",null,{"fallback":null,"children":"$L56"}]}]}]]}]
53:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"theme-color","content":"#111922"}]]
4f:null
57:I[622,[],"IconMark"]
51:{"metadata":[["$","title","0",{"children":"Pigeon — the facts that matter"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"A minimalist, fact-only news app. Time, place, fact, primary-source link. No opinion. No gossip. FACT → CONTEXT → WEIGH-IT."}],["$","link","2",{"rel":"manifest","href":"/manifest.webmanifest","crossOrigin":"$undefined"}],["$","link","3",{"rel":"icon","href":"/icons/favicon-48.png","sizes":"48x48","type":"image/png"}],["$","link","4",{"rel":"icon","href":"/icons/favicon-32.png","sizes":"32x32","type":"image/png"}],["$","link","5",{"rel":"icon","href":"/icons/favicon-16.png","sizes":"16x16","type":"image/png"}],["$","link","6",{"rel":"apple-touch-icon","href":"/icons/apple-touch-icon.png","sizes":"180x180","type":"image/png"}],["$","$L57","7",{}]],"error":null,"digest":"$undefined"}
56:"$51:metadata"
